**ASTHMA**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Asthma

Asthma is a common long-term
inflammatory disease of the bronchioles
of the lungs. It is characterized by
variable and recurring symptoms,
reversible airflow obstruction, and
easily triggered bronchospasms.
Symptoms include episodes of wheezing,
coughing, chest tightness, and
shortness of breath. A sudden worsening
of asthma symptoms sometimes called an
'asthma attack' or an 'asthma
exacerbation' can occur when allergens,
pollen, dust, or other particles, are
inhaled into the lungs, causing the
bronchioles to constrict and produce
mucus, which then restricts oxygen flow
to the alveoli. These may occur a few
times a day or a few times per week.
Depending on the person, asthma
symptoms may become worse at night or
with exercise.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~114
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
