**AUTISM**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Autism

Autism, also known as autism spectrum
disorder (ASD), is a condition
characterized by differences or
difficulties in social communication
and interaction, a need or strong
preference for predictability and
routine, sensory processing
differences, focused interests, and
repetitive behaviors. Characteristics
of autism are present from early
childhood and the condition typically
persists throughout life. Autism is
classified as a neurodevelopmental
disorder, and a formal diagnosis
requires professional assessment that
these characteristics cause significant
challenges in daily life beyond what
would be expected given a person's age
and social environment. Because autism
is a spectrum disorder, presentations
vary and support needs range from
minimal to being non-speaking or
needing 24-hour care.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~110
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
