**AUTOMATION**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Automation

Automation describes a wide range of
technologies that reduce human
intervention in processes, mainly by
predetermining decision criteria,
subprocess relationships, and related
actions, as well as embodying those
predeterminations in machines.
Automation has been achieved by various
means including mechanical, hydraulic,
pneumatic, electrical, electronic
devices, and computers, usually in
combination. Complicated systems, such
as modern factories, airplanes, and
ships typically use combinations of all
of these techniques. The benefit of
automation includes labor savings,
reducing waste, savings in electricity
costs, savings in material costs, and
improvements to quality, accuracy, and
precision.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~92
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
