**AZTECS**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Aztecs

The Aztecs were a Mesoamerican
civilization that flourished in central
Mexico in the post-classic period from
1300 to 1521. The Aztec people included
different ethnic groups of central
Mexico, particularly those groups who
spoke the Nahuatl language and who
dominated large parts of Mesoamerica
from the 14th to the 16th centuries.
Aztec culture was organized into
city-states (altepetl), some of which
joined to form alliances, political
confederations, or empires. The Aztec
Empire was a confederation of three
city-states established in 1427:
Tenochtitlan, the capital city of the
Mexica or Tenochca, Tetzcoco, and
Tlacopan, previously part of the
Tepanec empire, whose dominant power
was Azcapotzalco. Although the term
Aztecs is often narrowly restricted to
the Mexica of Tenochtitlan, it is also
broadly used to refer to Nahua polities
or peoples of central Mexico in the
prehispanic era, as well as the Spanish
colonial era (15211821). The
definitions of Aztec and Aztecs have
long been the topic of scholarly
discussion ever since German scientist
Alexander von Humboldt established its
common usage in the early 19th century.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~175
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
