**BIG BANG**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Big Bang

The Big Bang is a physical theory that
describes how the universe expanded
from an initial state of high density
and temperature. Various cosmological
models based on the Big Bang concept
explain a broad range of phenomena,
including the abundance of light
elements, the cosmic microwave
background (CMB) radiation, and
large-scale structure. The uniformity
of the universe, known as the horizon
and flatness problems, is explained
through cosmic inflation: a phase of
accelerated expansion during the
earliest stages. Detailed measurements
of the expansion rate of the universe
place the initial singularity at an
estimated 13.7870.02billion years ago,
which is considered the age of the
universe. A wide range of empirical
evidence strongly favors the Big Bang
event, which is now widely accepted.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~124
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
