**BIPOLAR DISORDER**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Bipolar disorder

Bipolar disorder (BD), previously known
as manic depression, is a mental
disorder characterized by periods of
depression and of abnormally elevated
mood that each last from days to weeks,
and in some cases months. If the
elevated mood is severe or associated
with psychosis, it is called mania; if
it does not significantly affect
functioning, it is called hypomania.
During mania, an individual behaves or
feels abnormally energetic, happy, or
irritable, and often makes impulsive
decisions with little regard for the
consequences. There is usually sleep
disturbance during manic phases. During
periods of depression, the individual
may experience crying, have a negative
outlook, and demonstrate poor eye
contact. Over a period of 20 years, 6%
of those with BD died by suicide, with
about one-third attempting suicide in
their lifetime. Among those with BD,
4050% overall and 78% of adolescents
engaged in self-harm.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~145
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
