**BREASTFEEDING**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Breastfeeding

Breastfeeding, also known as nursing,
is the process where breast milk is fed
to a child. Infants may suck the milk
directly from the breast, or milk may
be extracted with a pump and then fed
to the infant. The World Health
Organization (WHO) recommend that
breastfeeding begin within the first
hour of a baby's birth and continue as
the baby wants. Health organizations,
including the WHO, recommend
breastfeeding exclusively for six
months. This means that no other foods
or drinks, other than vitamin D, are
typically given. The WHO recommends
exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6
months of life, followed by continued
breastfeeding with appropriate
complementary foods for up to 2 years
and beyond. Between 2015 and 2020, only
44% of infants were exclusively
breastfed in the first six months of
life.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~134
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
