**BRITISH EMPIRE**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

British Empire

The British Empire comprised the
dominions, colonies, protectorates,
mandates, and other territories ruled
or administered by the United Kingdom
and its predecessor states. It began
with the overseas possessions and
trading posts established by England in
the late 16th and early 17th centuries,
and colonisation attempts by Scotland
during the 17th century. At its height
in the 19th and early 20th centuries,
it became the largest empire in history
and, for a century, was the foremost
global power. By 1913, the British
Empire held sway over 412million
people, 23percent of the world
population at the time, and by 1920, it
covered 35.5millionkm2
(13.7millionsqmi), 24per cent of the
Earth's total land area. As a result,
its constitutional, legal, linguistic,
and cultural legacy is widespread. At
the peak of its power, it was described
as "the empire on which the sun never
sets", as the sun was always shining on
at least one of its territories.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~156
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
