**DIABETES**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Diabetes

Diabetes mellitus, commonly known as
diabetes, is a group of common
endocrine diseases characterized by
sustained high blood sugar levels.
Diabetes is due to either the pancreas
not producing enough of the hormone
insulin, or the cells of the body
becoming unresponsive to insulin's
effects. Classic symptoms include the
three Ps: polydipsia, polyuria,
polyphagia, weight loss, and blurred
vision. If left untreated, the disease
can lead to various health
complications, including disorders of
the cardiovascular system, eye, kidney,
and nerves. Diabetes accounts for
approximately 4.2 million deaths every
year, with an estimated 1.5 million
caused by either untreated or poorly
treated diabetes.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~103
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
