**EARTH**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Earth

Earth is the third planet from the Sun
and the only astronomical object known
to harbor life. This is enabled by
Earth being an ocean world, the only
one in the Solar System sustaining
liquid surface water. Almost all of
Earth's water is contained in its
global ocean, covering 70.8% of Earth's
crust. The remaining 29.2% of Earth's
crust is land, most of which is located
in the form of continental landmasses
within Earth's land hemisphere. Most of
Earth's land is at least somewhat humid
and covered by vegetation, while large
ice sheets at Earth's polar deserts
retain more water than Earth's
groundwater, lakes, rivers, and
atmospheric water combined. Earth's
crust consists of slowly moving
tectonic plates, which interact to
produce mountain ranges, volcanoes, and
earthquakes. Earth has a liquid outer
core that generates a magnetosphere
capable of deflecting most of the
destructive solar winds and cosmic
radiation.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~149
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
