**EATING DISORDER**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Eating disorder

An eating disorder is a mental disorder
defined by abnormal eating behaviors
that adversely affect a person's
physical or mental health. These
behaviors may include eating too much
food or too little food, as well as
body image issues. Types of eating
disorders include binge eating
disorder, where the person suffering
keeps eating large amounts in a short
period of time typically while not
being hungry, often leading to weight
gain; anorexia nervosa, where the
person has an intense fear of gaining
weight, thus restricts food and/or
overexercises to manage this fear;
bulimia nervosa, where individuals eat
a large quantity (binging) then try to
rid themselves of the food (purging),
in an attempt to not gain any weight;
pica, where the patient eats non-food
items; rumination syndrome, where the
patient regurgitates undigested or
minimally digested food;
avoidant/restrictive food intake
disorder (ARFID), where people have a
reduced or selective food intake due to
some psychological reasons; and a group
of other specified feeding or eating
disorders. Anxiety disorders,
depression and substance abuse are
common among people with eating
disorders. These disorders do not
include obesity. People often
experience comorbidity between an
eating disorder and OCD.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~196
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
