**EMERGENCY MEDICINE**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Emergency medicine

Emergency medicine is the medical
specialty concerned with the care of
illnesses or injuries requiring
immediate medical attention. Emergency
physicians specialize in providing care
for unscheduled and undifferentiated
patients of all ages. As frontline
providers, in coordination with
emergency medical services, they are
responsible for initiating
resuscitation, stabilization, and early
interventions during the acute phase of
a medical condition. Emergency
physicians generally practice in
hospital emergency departments,
pre-hospital settings via emergency
medical services, and intensive care
units. Still, they may also work in
primary care settings such as urgent
care clinics.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~93
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
