**ENGINEERING**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Engineering

Engineering is the practice of using
natural science, mathematics, and the
engineering design process to solve
problems within technology, increase
efficiency and productivity, and
improve systems. The traditional
disciplines of engineering are civil,
mechanical, electrical, and chemical.
The academic discipline of engineering
encompasses a broad range of more
specialized subfields, and each can
have a more specific emphasis for
applications of mathematics and
science. In turn, modern engineering
practice spans multiple fields of
engineering, which include designing
and improving infrastructure,
machinery, vehicles, electronics,
materials, and energy systems. For
related terms, see glossary of
engineering.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~95
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
