**FLOOD**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Flood

A flood is an overflow of water that
submerges land that is usually dry. In
the sense of "flowing water", the word
may also be applied to the inflow of
the tide. Floods are of significant
concern in agriculture, civil
engineering and public health. Human
changes to the environment often
increase the intensity and frequency of
flooding. Examples for human changes
are land use changes such as
deforestation and removal of wetlands,
changes in waterway course or flood
controls such as with levees. Global
environmental issues also influence
causes of floods, namely climate change
which causes an intensification of the
water cycle and sea level rise. For
example, climate change makes extreme
weather events more frequent and
stronger. This leads to more intense
floods and increased flood risk.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~129
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
