**FRACTION**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Fraction

A fraction represents a part of a whole
or, more generally, any number of equal
parts. When spoken in everyday English,
a fraction describes how many parts of
a certain size there are, for example,
one-half, eight-fifths, three-quarters.
A common, vulgar, or simple fraction
consists of an integer numerator,
displayed above a line, and a non-zero
integer denominator, displayed below
that line. If these integers are
positive, then the numerator represents
a number of equal parts, and the
denominator indicates how many of those
parts make up a unit or a whole. For
example, in the fraction 3/4, the
numerator 3 indicates that the fraction
represents 3 equal parts, and the
denominator 4 indicates that 4 parts
make up a whole. The picture to the
right illustrates 3/4 of a cake.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~132
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
