**FRANCE**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

France

France, officially the French Republic,
is a country primarily located in
Western Europe. Its overseas regions
and territories include French Guiana
in South America, Saint Pierre and
Miquelon in the North Atlantic, the
French West Indies, and many islands in
Oceania and the Indian Ocean, giving it
the largest discontiguous exclusive
economic zone in the world.
Metropolitan France shares borders with
Belgium and Luxembourg to the north;
Germany to the northeast; Switzerland
to the east; Italy and Monaco to the
southeast; Andorra and Spain to the
south; and a maritime border with the
United Kingdom to the northwest. Its
metropolitan area extends from the
Rhine to the Atlantic Ocean and from
the Mediterranean Sea to the English
Channel and the North Sea. Its 18
integral regionsfive of which are
overseasspan a combined area of
632,702km2 (244,288sqmi) and have an
estimated total population of over 68.6
million as of January2025. France is a
semi-presidential republic. Its
capital, largest city and main cultural
and economic centre is Paris.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~167
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
