**GENETIC ENGINEERING**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Genetic engineering

Genetic engineering, also called
genetic modification or genetic
manipulation, is the modification and
manipulation of an organism's genes
using technology. It is a set of
technologies used to change the genetic
makeup of cells, including the transfer
of genes within and across species
boundaries to produce improved or novel
organisms. New DNA is obtained by
either isolating and copying the
genetic material of interest using
recombinant DNA methods or by
artificially synthesising the DNA. A
construct is usually created and used
to insert this DNA into the host
organism. The first recombinant DNA
molecule was made by Paul Berg in 1972
by combining DNA from the monkey virus
SV40 with the lambda virus. As well as
inserting genes, the process can be
used to remove, or "knock out", genes.
The new DNA can either be inserted
randomly or targeted to a specific part
of the genome.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~148
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
