**HIVAIDS**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

**HIV/AIDS**

The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
is a retrovirus that attacks the immune
system. Without treatment, it can lead
to a spectrum of conditions including
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
(AIDS). It is a preventable disease. It
can be managed with treatment and
become a manageable chronic health
condition. While there is no cure or
vaccine for HIV, antiretroviral
treatment can slow the course of the
disease, and if used before significant
disease progression, can extend the
life expectancy of someone living with
HIV to a nearly standard level. An
HIV-positive person on treatment can
expect to live a normal life, and die
with the virus, not of it. Effective
treatment for HIV-positive people
involves a life-long regimen of
medicine to suppress the virus, making
the viral load undetectable.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~127
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
