**INDEX**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Python (programming
language)|python_programming_language.txt|0|Python
is a high-level, general-purpose
programming language...
JavaScript|javascript.txt|0|JavaScript
(JS) is a programming language and core
technolog...
Java (programming
language)|java_programming_language.txt|0|Java
is a high-level, general-purpose,
memory-safe, object-o...
C (programming
language)|c_programming_language.txt|0|C
is a general-purpose programming
language. It was created ...
C++|c.txt|0|C++ is a high-level,
general-purpose programming language
cr...
C Sharp (programming
language)|c_sharp_programming_language.txt|0|C#
is a general-purpose high-level
programming language supp...
Ruby (programming
language)|ruby_programming_language.txt|0|Ruby
is a general-purpose programming
language. It was desig...
Go (programming
language)|go_programming_language.txt|0|Go
is a high-level general purpose
programming language that...
Rust (programming
language)|rust_programming_language.txt|0|Rust
is a general-purpose programming
language. It is noted ...
Swift (programming
language)|swift_programming_language.txt|0|Swift
is a high-level general-purpose,
multi-paradigm, compi...
PHP|php.txt|0|PHP is a general-purpose
scripting language geared towards w...
TypeScript|typescript.txt|0|TypeScript
(TS) is a high-level programming
language that ad...
Kotlin (programming
language)|kotlin_programming_language.txt|0|Kotlin
is a cross-platform, statically typed,
general-purpos...
Scala (programming
language)|scala_programming_language.txt|0|Scala
is a strongly statically typed
high-level general-purp...
Haskell|haskell.txt|0|Haskell is a
general-purpose, statically typed,
purely funct...
R (programming
language)|r_programming_language.txt|0|R
is a programming language for
statistical computing and da...
MATLAB|matlab.txt|0|MATLAB is a
proprietary multi-paradigm programming
language ...
Perl|perl.txt|0|Perl is a high-level,
general-purpose, interpreted, dynamic
...
Objective-C|objective_c.txt|0|Objective-C
is a high-level general-purpose,
object-oriented...
Lua|lua.txt|0|Lua is a lightweight,
high-level, multi-paradigm
programming...
Assembly
language|assembly_language.txt|0|In
computing, assembly language, often
referred to simply as...
SQL|sql.txt|0|Structured Query Language
(SQL) is a domain-specific languag...
HTML|html.txt|0|Hypertext Markup
Language (HTML) is the standard markup
lang...
CSS|css.txt|0|Cascading Style Sheets
(CSS) is a style sheet language used
...
BASIC|basic.txt|0|BASIC is a family of
general-purpose, high-level
programming...
COBOL|cobol.txt|0|COBOL is a compiled
English-like computer programming
langua...
Fortran|fortran.txt|0|Fortran is a
third-generation, compiled, imperative
programm...
Pascal (programming
language)|pascal_programming_language.txt|0|Pascal
is an imperative and procedural
programming language,...
Lisp (programming
language)|lisp_programming_language.txt|0|Lisp
is a family of programming languages
with a long histor...
Prolog|prolog.txt|0|Prolog is a logic
programming language that has its
origins ...
Erlang (programming
language)|erlang_programming_language.txt|0|Erlang
is a general-purpose, concurrent,
functional high-lev...
Elixir (programming
language)|elixir_programming_language.txt|0|Elixir
is a functional, concurrent, high-level
general-purpo...
Clojure|clojure.txt|0|Clojure is a
dynamic and functional dialect of the
programmi...
F Sharp (programming
language)|f_sharp_programming_language.txt|0|F#
is a general-purpose, high-level,
strongly typed, multi-p...
Julia (programming
language)|julia_programming_language.txt|0|Julia
is a dynamic general-purpose
programming language. As ...
Dart (programming
language)|dart_programming_language.txt|0|Dart
is a programming language designed by
Lars Bak and Kasp...
Apache
Groovy|apache_groovy.txt|0|Apache
Groovy is a Java-syntax-compatible
object-oriented pr...
Algorithm|algorithm.txt|0|In
mathematics and computer science, an
algorithm is a finit...
Data structure|data_structure.txt|0|In
computer science, a data structure is a
data organization...
Machine
learning|machine_learning.txt|0|Machine
learning (ML) is a field of study in
artificial inte...
Artificial
intelligence|artificial_intelligence.txt|0|Artificial
intelligence (AI) is the capability of
computatio...
Neural network|neural_network.txt|0|A
neural network is a group of
interconnected units called n...
Deep learning|deep_learning.txt|0|In
machine learning, deep learning focuses
on utilizing mult...
Computer
vision|computer_vision.txt|0|Computer
vision tasks include methods for
acquiring, process...
Natural language
processing|natural_language_processing.txt|0|Natural
language processing (NLP) is the
processing of natur...
Blockchain|blockchain.txt|0|A
blockchain is a distributed ledger with
growing lists of r...
Cryptocurrency|cryptocurrency.txt|0|A
cryptocurrency is a digital currency
designed to work thro...
Bitcoin|bitcoin.txt|0|Bitcoin is the
first decentralized cryptocurrency.
Based on ...
Ethereum|ethereum.txt|0|Ethereum is a
decentralized blockchain with smart
contract f...
Cloud
computing|cloud_computing.txt|0|Cloud
computing is "a paradigm for enabling
network access t...
Docker
(software)|docker_software.txt|0|Docker
is a set of platform as a service
(PaaS) products tha...
Kubernetes|kubernetes.txt|0|Kubernetes,
also known as K8s is an open-source
container or...
Linux|linux.txt|0|Linux is a family of
open source Unix-like operating
systems...
Unix|unix.txt|0|Unix is a family of
multitasking, multi-user computer
operat...
Microsoft
Windows|microsoft_windows.txt|0|Windows
is a product line of proprietary
graphical operating...
MacOS|macos.txt|0|macOS is a
proprietary Unix-like operating system,
derived f...
Android (operating
system)|android_operating_system.txt|0|Android
is an operating system based on a
modified version o...
IOS|ios.txt|0|iOS is a mobile operating
system created and developed by Ap...
Git|git.txt|0|Git is a distributed
version control software system that
is...
GitHub|github.txt|0|GitHub is a
proprietary developer platform that
allows devel...
Version
control|version_control.txt|0|Version
control is the software engineering
practice of cont...
Database|database.txt|0|In computing, a
database is an organized collection of
data ...
MySQL|mysql.txt|0|MySQL is an
open-source relational database
management syste...
PostgreSQL|postgresql.txt|0|PostgreSQL
also known as Postgres, is a free and
open-source...
MongoDB|mongodb.txt|0|MongoDB is a
source-available, cross-platform,
document-orie...
Redis|redis.txt|0|Redis is an in-memory
keyvalue database, used as a
distribut...
REST|rest.txt|0|REST is a software
architectural style that was created to
d...
GraphQL|graphql.txt|0|GraphQL is a data
query and manipulation language that
allow...
WebSocket|websocket.txt|0|WebSocket is
a computer communications protocol,
providing a...
HTTP|http.txt|0|HTTP is an application
layer protocol in the Internet
protoc...
Internet protocol
suite|internet_protocol_suite.txt|0|The
Internet protocol suite, commonly known
as TCP/IP, is a ...
Computer
security|computer_security.txt|0|Computer
security is a subdiscipline within the
field of inf...
Encryption|encryption.txt|0|In
cryptography, encryption is the process
of transforming i...
Cryptography|cryptography.txt|0|Cryptography,
or cryptology, is the practice and
study of te...
Firewall
(computing)|firewall_computing.txt|0|In
computing, a firewall is a network
security system that m...
Virtual
machine|virtual_machine.txt|0|In
computing, a virtual machine (VM) is
the virtualization o...
Compiler|compiler.txt|0|In computing, a
compiler is software that translates
compute...
Interpreter
(computing)|interpreter_computing.txt|0|In
computing, an interpreter is software
that executes sourc...
Object-oriented
programming|object_oriented_programming.txt|0|Object-oriented
programming (OOP) is a programming
paradigm ...
Functional
programming|functional_programming.txt|0|In
computer science, functional
programming is a programming...
Agile software
development|agile_software_development.txt|0|Agile
software development is an umbrella
term for approache...
Scrum (software
development)|scrum_software_development.txt|0|Scrum
is an agile team collaboration
framework commonly used...
DevOps|devops.txt|0|DevOps is the
integration and automation of the
software dev...
Continuous
integration|continuous_integration.txt|0|Continuous
integration (CI) is the practice of
integrating s...
Microservices|microservices.txt|0|In
software engineering, a microservice
architecture is an a...
Internet of
things|internet_of_things.txt|0|The
Internet of Things (IoT) describes
physical objects that...
5G|5g.txt|0|5G is the fifth generation
of cellular network technology an...
Quantum
computing|quantum_computing.txt|0|A
quantum computer is a computer that
uses quantum mechanica...
Big data|big_data.txt|0|Big data
primarily refers to data sets that are
too large or...
Physics|physics.txt|0|Physics is the
scientific study of matter, its
fundamental c...
Chemistry|chemistry.txt|0|Chemistry is
the scientific study of the properties
and beha...
Biology|biology.txt|0|Biology is the
scientific study of life and living
organisms...
Astronomy|astronomy.txt|0|Astronomy is
a natural science that studies
celestial object...
Geology|geology.txt|0|Geology is a
branch of natural science concerned
with the Ea...
Quantum
mechanics|quantum_mechanics.txt|0|Quantum
mechanics is the fundamental physical
theory that de...
Relativity|relativity.txt|0|Relativity
may refer to:
Thermodynamics|thermodynamics.txt|0|Thermodynamics
is a branch of physics that deals with
heat, ...
Electromagnetism|electromagnetism.txt|0|In
physics, electromagnetism is an
interaction that occurs b...
Gravity|gravity.txt|0|In physics,
gravity, also known as gravitation or a
gravitat...
Atom|atom.txt|0|Atoms are the basic
particles of the chemical elements and
t...
Molecule|molecule.txt|0|A molecule is a
group of two or more atoms that are
held tog...
DNA|dna.txt|0|Deoxyribonucleic acid is
a polymer composed of two polynucle...
RNA|rna.txt|0|Ribonucleic acid (RNA) is
a polymeric molecule that is essen...
Protein|protein.txt|0|Proteins are
large biomolecules and macromolecules
that comp...
Cell (biology)|cell_biology.txt|0|The
cell is the basic structural and
functional unit of all ...
Evolution|evolution.txt|0|Evolution is
the change in the heritable
characteristics of ...
Natural
selection|natural_selection.txt|0|Natural
selection is the differential survival
and reproduct...
Genetics|genetics.txt|0|Genetics is the
study of genes, genetic variation, and
hered...
Photosynthesis|photosynthesis.txt|0|Photosynthesis
is a system of biological processes by
which ...
Respiration
(physiology)|respiration_physiology.txt|0|In
physiology, respiration is a process
that facilitates the...
Ecosystem|ecosystem.txt|0|An ecosystem
is a system formed by organisms in
interaction ...
Biodiversity|biodiversity.txt|0|Biodiversity
is the variability of life on Earth. It
can be ...
Climate
change|climate_change.txt|0|Present-day
climate change includes both global
warmingthe o...
Climate
change|climate_change.txt|0|Present-day
climate change includes both global
warmingthe o...
Greenhouse
effect|greenhouse_effect.txt|0|The
greenhouse effect occurs when
heat-trapping gases in a p...
Ozone layer|ozone_layer.txt|0|The ozone
layer or ozone shield is a region of
Earth's strat...
Solar System|solar_system.txt|0|The
Solar System consists of the Sun and
the objects that or...
Planet|planet.txt|0|A planet is a
large, rounded astronomical body that
is gener...
Star|star.txt|0|A star is a luminous
spheroid of plasma held together by
sel...
Galaxy|galaxy.txt|0|A galaxy is a
system of stars, stellar remnants,
interstella...
Universe|universe.txt|0|The universe is
all of space and time and their
contents. It...
Big Bang|big_bang.txt|0|The Big Bang is
a physical theory that describes how
the uni...
Black hole|black_hole.txt|0|A black
hole is an astronomical body so dense
that its gravi...
Supernova|supernova.txt|0|A supernova
is a powerful and luminous explosion of
a star. ...
Neutron star|neutron_star.txt|0|A
neutron star is the gravitationally
collapsed core of a ma...
Periodic table|periodic_table.txt|0|The
periodic table, also known as the
periodic table of the ...
Chemical
element|chemical_element.txt|0|A
chemical element is a species of atom
defined by its numbe...
Chemical
reaction|chemical_reaction.txt|0|A
chemical reaction is a process that
leads to the chemical ...
Acid|acid.txt|0|An acid is a molecule
or ion capable of either donating a
pr...
Base
(chemistry)|base_chemistry.txt|0|In
chemistry, there are three definitions
in common use of t...
PH|ph.txt|0|In chemistry, pH (/ is a
logarithmic scale used to specify t...
Organic
chemistry|organic_chemistry.txt|0|Organic
chemistry is a subdiscipline within
chemistry involv...
Inorganic
chemistry|inorganic_chemistry.txt|0|Inorganic
chemistry deals with synthesis and
behavior of ino...
Nuclear
physics|nuclear_physics.txt|0|Nuclear
physics is the field of physics that
studies atomic ...
Particle
physics|particle_physics.txt|0|Particle
physics or high-energy physics is the
study of fund...
Standard Model|standard_model.txt|0|The
Standard Model of particle physics is
the theory describ...
Higgs boson|higgs_boson.txt|0|The Higgs
boson, sometimes called the Higgs
particle, is an ...
Electron|electron.txt|0|The electron is
a subatomic particle whose electric
charge i...
Proton|proton.txt|0|A proton is a
stable subatomic particle, symbol p,
H+, or 1H...
Neutron|neutron.txt|0|The neutron is a
subatomic particle, symbol n or n0,
that ha...
Quark|quark.txt|0|A quark is a type of
elementary particle and a fundamental
c...
Photon|photon.txt|0|A photon is an
elementary particle that is a quantum
of the ...
Energy|energy.txt|0|Energy is the
quantitative property that is
transferred to a...
Force|force.txt|0|In physics, a force
is an action that can cause an object
to...
Motion|motion.txt|0|In physics, motion
is when an object changes its position
wi...
Acceleration|acceleration.txt|0|In
mechanics, acceleration is the rate of
change of the velo...
Velocity|velocity.txt|0|Velocity is a
measurement of speed in a certain
direction of...
Momentum|momentum.txt|0|In Newtonian
mechanics, momentum is the product of
the mass ...
Wave|wave.txt|0|In physics,
mathematics, engineering, and related
fields, a ...
Light|light.txt|0|Light, visible light,
or visible radiation is
electromagneti...
Sound|sound.txt|0|In physics, sound is
a vibration that propagates as an
acous...
Electricity|electricity.txt|0|Electricity
is the set of physical phenomena
associated with...
Magnetism|magnetism.txt|0|Magnetism is
the class of physical attributes that
occur thr...
Optics|optics.txt|0|Optics is the
branch of physics that studies the
behaviour, ...
Lens|lens.txt|0|A lens is a
transmissive optical device that
focuses or disp...
Laser|laser.txt|0|A laser is a device
that emits light through a process of
op...
X-ray|x_ray.txt|0|An X-ray (also known
in many languages as Rntgen radiation)
...
Radioactive
decay|radioactive_decay.txt|0|Radioactive
decay is the process by which an
unstable atomic...
Nuclear
fission|nuclear_fission.txt|0|Nuclear
fission is a reaction in which the
nucleus of an ato...
Nuclear
fusion|nuclear_fusion.txt|0|Nuclear
fusion is a reaction in which two or
more atomic nuc...
Plasma
(physics)|plasma_physics.txt|0|Plasma
is a state of matter that results from
a gaseous stat...
Superconductivity|superconductivity.txt|0|Superconductivity
is a set of physical properties
observed i...
Semiconductor|semiconductor.txt|0|A
semiconductor is a material with
electrical conductivity b...
Transistor|transistor.txt|0|A
transistor is a semiconductor device
used to amplify or sw...
Integrated
circuit|integrated_circuit.txt|0|An
integrated circuit (IC), also known as
a microchip or sim...
Vaccine|vaccine.txt|0|A vaccine is a
biological preparation that provides
active a...
Antibiotic|antibiotic.txt|0|An
antibiotic is a type of antimicrobial
substance active ag...
Virus|virus.txt|0|A virus is a
submicroscopic infectious agent that
replicates...
Bacteria|bacteria.txt|0|Bacteria are
ubiquitous, mostly free-living
organisms often ...
Immune system|immune_system.txt|0|The
immune system is a network of
biological systems that pr...
Nervous system|nervous_system.txt|0|In
biology, the nervous system is the
highly complex part of...
Brain|brain.txt|0|The brain is an organ
that serves as the center of the
nervo...
Heart|heart.txt|0|The heart is a
muscular organ found in humans and
other anim...
Lung|lung.txt|0|The lungs are the
primary organs of the respiratory
system i...
Kidney|kidney.txt|0|In humans, the
kidneys are two reddish-brown
bean-shaped blo...
Liver|liver.txt|0|The liver is a major
metabolic organ exclusively found in
ve...
Stomach|stomach.txt|0|The stomach is a
muscular, hollow organ in the upper
gastroi...
Gastrointestinal
tract|gastrointestinal_tract.txt|0|The
gastrointestinal tract is the tract or
passageway of the...
Blood|blood.txt|0|Blood is a body fluid
in the circulatory system of humans
an...
Bone|bone.txt|0|A bone is a rigid organ
that constitutes part of the skeleto...
Muscle|muscle.txt|0|Muscle is a soft
tissue, one of the four basic types of
anim...
Skin|skin.txt|0|Skin is the layer of
usually soft, flexible outer tissue
cov...
Eye|eye.txt|0|An eye is a sensory organ
that allows an organism to perceiv...
Ear|ear.txt|0|In vertebrates, an ear is
the organ that enables hearing and...
Nose|nose.txt|0|A nose is a sensory
organ and respiratory structure in
verte...
World War I|world_war_i.txt|0|World War
I or the First World War, also known as
the Great ...
World War II|world_war_ii.txt|0|World
WarII or the Second World War was a
global conflict be...
American
Revolution|american_revolution.txt|0|The
American Revolution (17651783) was a
political conflict ...
French
Revolution|french_revolution.txt|0|The
French Revolution was a period of
political and societal...
Industrial
Revolution|industrial_revolution.txt|0|The
Industrial Revolution, sometimes
divided into the First ...
Renaissance|renaissance.txt|0|The
Renaissance is a period of history and
a European cultur...
Roman Empire|roman_empire.txt|0|The
Roman Empire ruled the Mediterranean
and much of Europe,...
Ancient
Greece|ancient_greece.txt|0|Ancient
Greece was a northeastern Mediterranean
civilization...
Ancient
Egypt|ancient_egypt.txt|0|Ancient Egypt
was a cradle of civilization
concentrated alon...
Mesopotamia|mesopotamia.txt|0|Mesopotamia
is a historical region of West Asia
situated wit...
Maya
civilization|maya_civilization.txt|0|The
Maya civilization was a Mesoamerican
civilization that e...
Aztecs|aztecs.txt|0|The Aztecs were a
Mesoamerican civilization that
flourished ...
Inca Empire|inca_empire.txt|0|The Inca
Empire, officially known as the Realm
of the Four P...
Viking Age|viking_age.txt|0|The Viking
Age was the period during the Middle
Ages when No...
Middle Ages|middle_ages.txt|0|In the
history of Europe, the Middle Ages or
medieval period...
Crusades|crusades.txt|0|The Crusades
were a series of military campaigns
launched by...
Ottoman Empire|ottoman_empire.txt|0|The
Ottoman Empire, also called the Turkish
Empire, was an e...
Mongol Empire|mongol_empire.txt|0|The
Mongol Empire was the largest
contiguous empire in histo...
British Empire|british_empire.txt|0|The
British Empire comprised the dominions,
colonies, protec...
Spanish Empire|spanish_empire.txt|0|The
Spanish Empire, sometimes referred to
as the Hispanic Mo...
Cold War|cold_war.txt|0|The Cold War
was a period of global geopolitical
rivalry bet...
Vietnam War|vietnam_war.txt|0|The
Vietnam War was an armed conflict in
Vietnam, Laos, and ...
Korean War|korean_war.txt|0|The Korean
War was an armed conflict on the Korean
Peninsula...
Gulf War|gulf_war.txt|0|The Gulf War
was an armed conflict between Iraq and
a 42-cou...
Iraq War|iraq_war.txt|0|The Iraq War,
also referred to as the Second Gulf
War, was a...
War in
Afghanistan|war_in_afghanistan.txt|0|War
in Afghanistan, Afghan war, or Afghan
civil war may refe...
September 11
attacks|september_11_attacks.txt|0|The
September 11 attacks, also known as
9/11, were four coor...
Pearl Harbor|pearl_harbor.txt|0|Pearl
Harbor is an American lagoon harbor on
the island of O...
Normandy
landings|normandy_landings.txt|0|The
Normandy landings were the landing
operations and associ...
The Holocaust|the_holocaust.txt|0|The
Holocaust, known in Hebrew as the
Shoah, was the genocid...
Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and
Nagasaki|atomic_bombings_of_hiroshima_and_nagasaki.txt|0|On
6 and 9 August 1945, the United States
detonated two atom...
Manhattan
Project|manhattan_project.txt|0|The
Manhattan Project was a research and
development program...
Space Race|space_race.txt|0|The Space
Race was a 20th-century competition
between the Co...
Moon landing|moon_landing.txt|0|A Moon
landing or lunar landing is the arrival
of a spacecra...
Cuban Missile
Crisis|cuban_missile_crisis.txt|0|The
Cuban Missile Crisis, also known as the
October Crisis i...
Berlin Wall|berlin_wall.txt|0|The
Berlin Wall, officially the
Anti-Fascist Protection Ramp...
Fall of the Berlin
Wall|fall_of_the_berlin_wall.txt|0|The
Berlin Wall fell on 9 November 1989
during the Peaceful ...
Dissolution of the Soviet
Union|dissolution_of_the_soviet_union.txt|0|The
Soviet Union was formally dissolved as
a sovereign state...
Great
Depression|great_depression.txt|0|The
Great Depression was a severe global
economic downturn f...
New Deal|new_deal.txt|0|The New Deal
was a series of wide-reaching economic,
social,...
Roaring
Twenties|roaring_twenties.txt|0|The
Roaring Twenties, sometimes stylized as
Roaring '20s, re...
Prohibition|prohibition.txt|0|Prohibition
is the act or practice of forbidding
something b...
Civil rights
movement|civil_rights_movement.txt|0|The
civil rights movement was a social
movement in the Unite...
Martin Luther King
Jr.|martin_luther_king_jr.txt|0|Martin
Luther King Jr. was an American Baptist
minister, civ...
Malcolm X|malcolm_x.txt|0|MalcolmX was
an African American revolutionary,
Muslim minis...
Women's
suffrage|womens_suffrage.txt|0|Women's
suffrage is the right of women to vote
in elections....
Slavery|slavery.txt|0|Slavery is the
ownership of a person as property,
especially...
American Civil
War|american_civil_war.txt|0|The
American Civil War was a civil war in
the United States ...
Abraham
Lincoln|abraham_lincoln.txt|0|Abraham
Lincoln was the 16th president of the
United States,...
George
Washington|george_washington.txt|0|George
Washington was a Founding Father and
the first presid...
Thomas
Jefferson|thomas_jefferson.txt|0|Thomas
Jefferson was an American Founding
Father and the thi...
Benjamin
Franklin|benjamin_franklin.txt|0|Benjamin
Franklin was an American polymath: a
writer, scient...
Napoleon|napoleon.txt|0|Napoleon
Bonaparte, later known by his regnal
name NapoleonI...
Julius Caesar|julius_caesar.txt|0|Gaius
Julius Caesar was a Roman general and
statesman. A mem...
Alexander the
Great|alexander_the_great.txt|0|Alexander
III of Macedon, most commonly known as
Alexander t...
Genghis Khan|genghis_khan.txt|0|Genghis
Khan, also known as Chinggis Khan, was
the founder a...
Cleopatra|cleopatra.txt|0|Cleopatra VII
Thea Philopator was Queen of the
Ptolemaic Kin...
Queen
Victoria|queen_victoria.txt|0|Victoria
was Queen of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain an...
Winston
Churchill|winston_churchill.txt|0|Sir
Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill was a
British statesma...
Adolf Hitler|adolf_hitler.txt|0|Adolf
Hitler was an Austrian-born German
politician who was ...
Joseph
Stalin|joseph_stalin.txt|0|Joseph
Vissarionovich Stalin was a Soviet
politician and rev...
Mao Zedong|mao_zedong.txt|0|Mao Zedong
was a Chinese politician,
revolutionary, and poli...
Vladimir
Lenin|vladimir_lenin.txt|0|Vladimir
Ilyich Ulyanov, better known as
Vladimir Lenin, was...
Karl Marx|karl_marx.txt|0|Karl Marx was
a German philosopher, political
theorist, econ...
Albert
Einstein|albert_einstein.txt|0|Albert
Einstein was a German-born theoretical
physicist best...
Isaac Newton|isaac_newton.txt|0|Sir
Isaac Newton was an English polymath
active as a mathema...
Galileo
Galilei|galileo_galilei.txt|0|Galileo
di Vincenzo Bonaiuti de' Galilei,
commonly referred ...
Charles
Darwin|charles_darwin.txt|0|Charles
Robert Darwin was an English
naturalist, geologist, ...
Marie Curie|marie_curie.txt|0|Maria
Salomea Skodowska-Curie, known as Marie
Curie, was a P...
Nikola Tesla|nikola_tesla.txt|0|Nikola
Tesla was a Serbian-American engineer,
futurist, and ...
Thomas
Edison|thomas_edison.txt|0|Thomas Alva
Edison was an American inventor and
businessman....
Stephen
Hawking|stephen_hawking.txt|0|Stephen
William Hawking was an English
theoretical physicist...
Leonardo da
Vinci|leonardo_da_vinci.txt|0|Leonardo
di ser Piero da Vinci was an Italian
polymath of th...
Michelangelo|michelangelo.txt|0|Michelangelo
di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni, known
mononymous...
Pablo Picasso|pablo_picasso.txt|0|Pablo
Diego Jos Francisco de Paula Juan
Nepomuceno Mara de l...
Vincent van
Gogh|vincent_van_gogh.txt|0|Vincent
Willem van Gogh was a Dutch
Post-Impressionist paint...
Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart|wolfgang_amadeus_mozart.txt|0|Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart was a prolific and
influential compo...
Ludwig van
Beethoven|ludwig_van_beethoven.txt|0|Ludwig
van Beethoven was a German composer and
pianist. One ...
Johann Sebastian
Bach|johann_sebastian_bach.txt|0|Johann
Sebastian Bach was a German composer
and musician of ...
William
Shakespeare|william_shakespeare.txt|0|William
Shakespeare was an English playwright,
poet and acto...
Mark Twain|mark_twain.txt|0|Samuel
Langhorne Clemens, known by the pen
name Mark Twain, ...
Ernest
Hemingway|ernest_hemingway.txt|0|Ernest
Miller Hemingway ; July 21, 1899 July
2, 1961) was an...
Jane Austen|jane_austen.txt|0|Jane
Austen was an English novelist known
primarily for her ...
Charles
Dickens|charles_dickens.txt|0|Charles
John Huffam Dickens was an English
novelist, journal...
Leo Tolstoy|leo_tolstoy.txt|0|Count Lev
Nikolayevich Tolstoy, usually referred
to in Engli...
Fyodor
Dostoevsky|fyodor_dostoevsky.txt|0|Fyodor
Mikhailovich Dostoevsky was a Russian
novelist, short...
Homer|homer.txt|0|Homer was an ancient
Greek poet who is credited as the
autho...
Aristotle|aristotle.txt|0|Aristotle was
an ancient Greek philosopher and
polymath. His...
Plato|plato.txt|0|Plato was an ancient
Greek philosopher of the Classical
peri...
Socrates|socrates.txt|0|Socrates was an
ancient Greek philosopher from Athens
who is...
Confucius|confucius.txt|0|Confucius,
born Kong Qiu (), was a Chinese
philosopher of th...
The Buddha|the_buddha.txt|0|Siddhartha
Gautama, most commonly referred to as
the Buddha,...
Muhammad|muhammad.txt|0|Muhammad was an
Arab religious, military and political
leade...
Jesus|jesus.txt|0|Jesus, also referred
to as Jesus Christ, Jesus of Nazareth,
...
Moses|moses.txt|0|In Abrahamic
religions, Moses was the Hebrew prophet
who led...
Mahatma
Gandhi|mahatma_gandhi.txt|0|Mohandas
Karamchand Gandhi was an Indian lawyer,
anti-coloni...
Nelson
Mandela|nelson_mandela.txt|0|Nelson
Rolihlahla Mandela was a South African
anti-apartheid...
Mother Teresa|mother_teresa.txt|0|Mary
Teresa Bojaxhiu, better known as Mother
Teresa or Saint...
Dalai Lama|dalai_lama.txt|0|The Dalai
Lama is the head of the Gelug school of
Tibetan Bu...
Martin
Luther|martin_luther.txt|0|Martin
Luther was a German priest, theologian,
author, hymnw...
John Calvin|john_calvin.txt|0|John
Calvin was a French theologian, pastor
and reformer in ...
Steve Jobs|steve_jobs.txt|0|Steven Paul
Jobs was an American businessman,
inventor, and ...
Bill Gates|bill_gates.txt|0|William
Henry Gates III is an American
businessman and phila...
Elon Musk|elon_musk.txt|0|Elon Reeve
Musk is a businessman and entrepreneur
known for ...
Jeff Bezos|jeff_bezos.txt|0|Jeffrey
Preston Bezos is an American
businessman best known ...
Mark
Zuckerberg|mark_zuckerberg.txt|0|Mark
Elliot Zuckerberg is an American
businessman who co-fou...
Larry Page|larry_page.txt|0|Lawrence
Edward Page is an American
businessperson, computer...
Sergey Brin|sergey_brin.txt|0|Sergey
Mikhailovich Brin is an American
computer scientist a...
Tim
Berners-Lee|tim_berners_lee.txt|0|Sir
Timothy John Berners-Lee, also known as
TimBL, is an Eng...
Alan Turing|alan_turing.txt|0|Alan
Mathison Turing was an English
mathematician, computer ...
Grace Hopper|grace_hopper.txt|0|Grace
Brewster Hopper was an American
computer scientist, ma...
Ada Lovelace|ada_lovelace.txt|0|Augusta
Ada King, Countess of Lovelace, also
known as Ada Lo...
Dennis
Ritchie|dennis_ritchie.txt|0|Dennis
MacAlistair Ritchie was an American
computer scientis...
Linus
Torvalds|linus_torvalds.txt|0|Linus
Benedict Torvalds is a Finnish and
American software e...
Richard
Stallman|richard_stallman.txt|0|Richard
Matthew Stallman, also known by his
initials, rms, i...
Guido van
Rossum|guido_van_rossum.txt|0|Guido van
Rossum is a Dutch programmer. He is the
creator of...
Sigmund
Freud|sigmund_freud.txt|0|Sigmund Freud
was an Austrian neurologist and the
founder of...
Carl Jung|carl_jung.txt|0|Carl Gustav
Jung was a Swiss psychiatrist,
psychotherapist, ...
Ivan Pavlov|ivan_pavlov.txt|0|Ivan
Petrovich Pavlov was a Russian and
Soviet experimental ...
B. F. Skinner|b_f_skinner.txt|0|Burrhus
Frederic Skinner was an American
psychologist, behav...
Earth|earth.txt|0|Earth is the third
planet from the Sun and the only
astronom...
Continent|continent.txt|0|A continent
is any of several large terrestrial
geographical...
Ocean|ocean.txt|0|The ocean is the body
of salt water that covers
approximatel...
Mountain|mountain.txt|0|A mountain is
an elevated portion of the Earth's
crust, gene...
River|river.txt|0|A river is a natural
stream of fresh water that flows on
lan...
Lake|lake.txt|0|A lake is often a
naturally occurring, relatively large
and ...
Desert|desert.txt|0|A desert is a
landscape where little precipitation
occurs an...
Forest|forest.txt|0|A forest is an
ecosystem characterized by a dense
community ...
Jungle|jungle.txt|0|A jungle is land
covered with dense forest and tangled
veget...
Tundra|tundra.txt|0|In physical
geography, a tundra is a type of biome
where tre...
Savanna|savanna.txt|0|A savanna or
savannah is a mixed woodland-grassland
biome an...
Grassland|grassland.txt|0|A grassland
is an area where the vegetation is
dominated by ...
Wetland|wetland.txt|0|A wetland is a
distinct semi-aquatic ecosystem whose
groundc...
Coral reef|coral_reef.txt|0|A coral
reef is an underwater ecosystem
characterized by ree...
Island|island.txt|0|An island or isle
is a piece of land, distinct from a
contin...
Volcano|volcano.txt|0|A volcano is
commonly defined as a vent or fissure
in the cr...
Earthquake|earthquake.txt|0|An
earthquake, also called a quake,
tremor, or temblor, is t...
Tsunami|tsunami.txt|0|A tsunami is a
series of waves in a water body caused
by the...
Tropical
cyclone|tropical_cyclone.txt|0|A
tropical cyclone is a rapidly rotating
storm system with a...
Tornado|tornado.txt|0|A tornado is a
rotating column of air that is in
contact wit...
Flood|flood.txt|0|A flood is an
overflow of water that submerges land
that is ...
Drought|drought.txt|0|A drought is a
period of drier-than-normal conditions.
A dro...
Wildfire|wildfire.txt|0|A wildfire,
forest fire, or a bushfire is an
unplanned and u...
Avalanche|avalanche.txt|0|An avalanche
is a rapid flow of snow down a slope,
such as a...
Landslide|landslide.txt|0|Landslides,
also known as landslips, rockslips or
rockslides...
Mount Everest|mount_everest.txt|0|Mount
Everest is Earth's highest mountain
above sea level. I...
Amazon River|amazon_river.txt|0|The
Amazon River in South America is the
largest river by di...
Nile|nile.txt|0|The Nile is an
important river in Africa that flows
northwar...
Mississippi
River|mississippi_river.txt|0|The
Mississippi River is the primary river
of the largest dr...
Pacific Ocean|pacific_ocean.txt|0|The
Pacific Ocean is the largest and
deepest of Earth's five...
Atlantic Ocean|atlantic_ocean.txt|0|The
Atlantic Ocean is the second largest of
the world's five...
Indian Ocean|indian_ocean.txt|0|The
Indian Ocean is the third-largest of
the world's five oc...
Arctic Ocean|arctic_ocean.txt|0|The
Arctic Ocean is the smallest and
shallowest of the world...
Sahara|sahara.txt|0|The Sahara is a
desert spanning across North Africa.
With an...
Amazon
rainforest|amazon_rainforest.txt|0|The
Amazon rainforest, also called the
Amazon jungle or Amaz...
Great Barrier
Reef|great_barrier_reef.txt|0|The Great
Barrier Reef is the world's largest
coral reef sys...
Grand Canyon|grand_canyon.txt|0|The
Grand Canyon is a steep-sided canyon
carved by the Color...
Niagara
Falls|niagara_falls.txt|0|Niagara Falls
is a group of three waterfalls at the
southern...
Victoria
Falls|victoria_falls.txt|0|Victoria
Falls is a waterfall on the Zambezi
River, located ...
Asia|asia.txt|0|Asia is the largest
continent in the world by both land
area...
Africa|africa.txt|0|Africa is the
world's second-largest and second-most
populou...
Europe|europe.txt|0|Europe is a
continent located entirely in the
Northern Hemis...
North America|north_america.txt|0|North
America is a continent in the Northern
and Western hem...
South America|south_america.txt|0|South
America is a continent entirely in the
Western Hemisph...
Australia|australia.txt|0|Australia,
officially the Commonwealth of
Australia, is a co...
Antarctica|antarctica.txt|0|Antarctica
is Earth's southernmost and
least-populated conti...
United States|united_states.txt|0|The
United States of America (USA), also
known as the United...
China|china.txt|0|China, officially the
People's Republic of China (PRC), is
a...
India|india.txt|0|India, officially the
Republic of India, is a country in
Sou...
Russia|russia.txt|0|Russia, or the
Russian Federation, is a country
spanning Eas...
Japan|japan.txt|0|Japan is an island
country in East Asia. Located in the
Paci...
United Kingdom|united_kingdom.txt|0|The
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, co...
France|france.txt|0|France, officially
the French Republic, is a country
primari...
Germany|germany.txt|0|Germany,
officially the Federal Republic of
Germany, is a co...
Italy|italy.txt|0|Italy, officially the
Italian Republic, is a country in
Sout...
Spain|spain.txt|0|Spain, officially the
Kingdom of Spain, is a country in
Sout...
Canada|canada.txt|0|Canada is a country
in North America. Its ten provinces and
...
Mexico|mexico.txt|0|Mexico, officially
the United Mexican States, is a country
i...
Brazil|brazil.txt|0|Brazil, officially
the Federative Republic of Brazil, is
the...
Argentina|argentina.txt|0|Argentina,
officially the Argentine Republic, is a
country i...
Egypt|egypt.txt|0|Egypt, officially the
Arab Republic of Egypt, is a country
s...
South Africa|south_africa.txt|0|South
Africa, officially the Republic of
South Africa (RSA),...
Nigeria|nigeria.txt|0|Nigeria,
officially the Federal Republic of
Nigeria, is a co...
Kenya|kenya.txt|0|Kenya, officially the
Republic of Kenya, is a country
locate...
Saudi Arabia|saudi_arabia.txt|0|Saudi
Arabia, officially the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia (KSA), ...
Israel|israel.txt|0|Israel, officially
the State of Israel, is a country in
the ...
Turkey|turkey.txt|0|Turkey, officially
the Republic of Trkiye, is a country
main...
Greece|greece.txt|0|Greece, officially
the Hellenic Republic, is a country in
So...
Rome|rome.txt|0|Rome is the capital
city and most populated comune
(municipa...
Paris|paris.txt|0|Paris is the capital
and largest city of France, with an
est...
London|london.txt|0|London is the
capital and largest city of both
England and t...
New York City|new_york_city.txt|0|New
York, often called New York City (NYC),
is the most popu...
Tokyo|tokyo.txt|0|Tokyo, officially the
Tokyo Metropolis, is the capital and
m...
Beijing|beijing.txt|0|Beijing,
previously romanized as Peking, is the
capital city...
Moscow|moscow.txt|0|Moscow is the
capital and largest city of Russia,
standing o...
Sydney|sydney.txt|0|Sydney is the
capital city of the state of New South
Wales a...
Rio de Janeiro|rio_de_janeiro.txt|0|Rio
de Janeiro, or simply Rio, is the
capital of the state o...
Cairo|cairo.txt|0|Cairo is the capital
and largest city of Egypt and the
Cairo...
Jerusalem|jerusalem.txt|0|Jerusalem is
a city in the Southern Levant, on a
plateau in ...
Mathematics|mathematics.txt|0|Mathematics
is a field of study that discovers and
organizes...
Algebra|algebra.txt|0|Algebra is a
branch of mathematics that deals with
abstract ...
Geometry|geometry.txt|0|Geometry is a
branch of mathematics concerned with
propertie...
Calculus|calculus.txt|0|Calculus is the
mathematical study of continuous
change, in ...
Trigonometry|trigonometry.txt|0|Trigonometry
is a branch of mathematics concerned
with relat...
Statistics|statistics.txt|0|Statistics
is the discipline that concerns the
collection, o...
Probability|probability.txt|0|Probability
is a branch of mathematics and
statistics concer...
Number
theory|number_theory.txt|0|Number
theory is a branch of pure mathematics
devoted primar...
Set theory|set_theory.txt|0|Set theory
is the branch of mathematical logic
that studies ...
Logic|logic.txt|0|Logic is the study of
correct reasoning. It includes both
fo...
Arithmetic|arithmetic.txt|0|Arithmetic
is an elementary branch of mathematics
that deals...
Addition|addition.txt|0|Addition,
usually denoted with the plus sign +,
is one of th...
Subtraction|subtraction.txt|0|Subtraction
is one of the four arithmetic
operations along w...
Multiplication|multiplication.txt|0|Multiplication
is one of the four elementary
mathematical op...
Division|division.txt|0|Division may
refer to:
Fraction|fraction.txt|0|A fraction
represents a part of a whole or, more
generally, ...
Decimal|decimal.txt|0|The decimal
numeral system is the standard system
for denoti...
Percentage|percentage.txt|0|In
mathematics, a percentage, percent, or
per cent is a numb...
Ratio|ratio.txt|0|In mathematics, a
ratio shows how many times one number
cont...
Proportionality|proportionality.txt|0|Proportionality,
proportion or proportional may refer
to:
Exponentiation|exponentiation.txt|0|In
mathematics, exponentiation, denoted
bn, is an operation ...
Logarithm|logarithm.txt|0|In
mathematics, the logarithm of a number
is the exponent by...
Root
(disambiguation)|root_disambiguation.txt|0|A
root is the part of a plant, generally
underground, that a...
Complex number|complex_number.txt|0|In
mathematics, a complex number is an
element of a number s...
Prime number|prime_number.txt|0|A prime
number is a natural number greater than
1 that is no...
Integer|integer.txt|0|An integer is the
number zero (0), a positive natural
number...
Rational
number|rational_number.txt|0|In
mathematics, a rational number is a
number that can be ex...
Irrational
number|irrational_number.txt|0|In
mathematics, the irrational numbers are
all the real numb...
Real number|real_number.txt|0|In
mathematics, a real number is a number
that can be used t...
Natural number|natural_number.txt|0|In
mathematics, the natural numbers are
the numbers 0, 1, 2,...
Equation|equation.txt|0|In mathematics,
an equation is a mathematical formula
that e...
Function
(mathematics)|function_mathematics.txt|0|In
mathematics, a function from a set X to
a set Y assigns t...
Variable
(mathematics)|variable_mathematics.txt|0|In
mathematics, a variable is a symbol,
typically a letter, ...
Constant
(mathematics)|constant_mathematics.txt|0|In
mathematics, the word constant conveys
multiple meanings....
Polynomial|polynomial.txt|0|In
mathematics, a polynomial is a
mathematical expression co...
Quadratic
equation|quadratic_equation.txt|0|In
mathematics, a quadratic equation is an
equation that can...
Linear
equation|linear_equation.txt|0|In
mathematics, a linear equation is an
equation that may be...
Matrix
(mathematics)|matrix_mathematics.txt|0|In
mathematics, a matrix is a rectangular
array of numbers o...
Vector (mathematics and
physics)|vector_mathematics_and_physics.txt|0|In
mathematics and physics, vector is a
term that refers to ...
Derivative|derivative.txt|0|In
mathematics, the derivative is a
fundamental tool that qu...
Integral|integral.txt|0|In mathematics,
an integral is the continuous analog of
a su...
Limit
(mathematics)|limit_mathematics.txt|0|In
mathematics, a limit is the value that
a function approac...
Series
(mathematics)|series_mathematics.txt|0|In
mathematics, a series is, roughly
speaking, an addition o...
Sequence|sequence.txt|0|In mathematics,
a sequence is an enumerated collection
of ob...
Factorial|factorial.txt|0|In
mathematics, the factorial of a
non-negative integer , de...
Permutation|permutation.txt|0|In
mathematics, a permutation of a set can
mean one of two d...
Combination|combination.txt|0|In
mathematics, a combination is a
selection of items from a...
Graph theory|graph_theory.txt|0|In
mathematics and computer science, graph
theory is the stu...
Topology|topology.txt|0|Topology is the
branch of mathematics concerned with
the pro...
Differential
equation|differential_equation.txt|0|In
mathematics, a differential equation is
an equation that ...
Triangle|triangle.txt|0|A triangle is a
polygon with three corners and three
sides, ...
Circle|circle.txt|0|A circle is a shape
consisting of all points in a plane
that...
Square|square.txt|0|In geometry, a
square is a regular quadrilateral. It
has fou...
Rectangle|rectangle.txt|0|In Euclidean
plane geometry, a rectangle is a
rectilinear co...
Pentagon|pentagon.txt|0|In geometry, a
pentagon is any five-sided polygon or
5-gon. ...
Hexagon|hexagon.txt|0|In geometry, a
hexagon is a six-sided polygon. The
total of ...
Sphere|sphere.txt|0|A sphere is a
surface analogous to the circle, a
curve. In s...
Cube|cube.txt|0|A cube is a
three-dimensional solid object in
geometry. A cu...
Cylinder|cylinder.txt|0|A cylinder has
traditionally been a three-dimensional
solid,...
Cone|cone.txt|0|In geometry, a cone is
a three-dimensional figure that
taper...
Pyramid
(geometry)|pyramid_geometry.txt|0|A
pyramid is a polyhedron formed by
connecting a polygonal b...
Angle|angle.txt|0|In geometry, an angle
is formed by two lines that meet at a
...
Parallel
(geometry)|parallel_geometry.txt|0|In
geometry, parallel lines are coplanar
infinite straight l...
Perpendicular|perpendicular.txt|0|In
geometry, two geometric objects are
perpendicular if they...
Area|area.txt|0|Area is the measure of
a region's size on a surface. The
are...
Perimeter|perimeter.txt|0|A perimeter
is the length of a closed boundary that
encompas...
Volume|volume.txt|0|Volume is a measure
of regions in three-dimensional space.
I...
Surface area|surface_area.txt|0|The
surface area of a solid object is a
measure of the total...
Pythagorean
theorem|pythagorean_theorem.txt|0|In
mathematics, the Pythagorean theorem or
Pythagoras' theor...
Golden ratio|golden_ratio.txt|0|In
mathematics, two quantities are in the
golden ratio if th...
Pi|pi.txt|0|The number is a
mathematical constant, approximately
equal t...
E (mathematical
constant)|e_mathematical_constant.txt|0|The
number e is a mathematical constant,
approximately equal...
Fibonacci
sequence|fibonacci_sequence.txt|0|In
mathematics, the Fibonacci sequence is
a sequence in whic...
Pascal's
triangle|pascals_triangle.txt|0|In
mathematics, Pascal's triangle is an
infinite triangular ...
Binomial
theorem|binomial_theorem.txt|0|In
elementary algebra, the binomial
theorem describes the al...
Medicine|medicine.txt|0|Medicine is the
science and practice of caring for
patients,...
Health|health.txt|0|Health has a
variety of definitions, which have been
used fo...
Disease|disease.txt|0|A disease is a
particular abnormal condition that
adversely ...
Infection|infection.txt|0|An infection
is the invasion of tissues by
pathogens, their ...
Cancer|cancer.txt|0|Cancer is a group
of diseases involving abnormal cell
growth...
Cardiovascular
disease|cardiovascular_disease.txt|0|Cardiovascular
disease (CVD) is any disease involving
the he...
Diabetes|diabetes.txt|0|Diabetes
mellitus, commonly known as diabetes,
is a group of...
Obesity|obesity.txt|0|Obesity is a
medical condition, considered by
multiple organ...
Hypertension|hypertension.txt|0|Hypertension,
also known as high blood pressure, is a
long-t...
Stroke|stroke.txt|0|Stroke is a medical
condition in which poor blood flow to a
...
Alzheimer's
disease|alzheimers_disease.txt|0|Alzheimer's
disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative
disease and ...
Parkinson's
disease|parkinsons_disease.txt|0|Parkinson's
disease (PD), or simply Parkinson's, is
a neurod...
Multiple
sclerosis|multiple_sclerosis.txt|0|Multiple
sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease
resulting i...
Asthma|asthma.txt|0|Asthma is a common
long-term inflammatory disease of the
bro...
Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease|chronic_obstructive_pulmonary_disease.txt|0|Chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is
a type of pr...
Pneumonia|pneumonia.txt|0|Pneumonia is
an inflammatory condition of the lung
primarily...
Influenza|influenza.txt|0|Influenza,
commonly known as the flu, is an
infectious disea...
COVID-19|covid_19.txt|0|Coronavirus
disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a contagious
disease ...
HIV/AIDS|hivaids.txt|0|The human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a
retrovirus that ...
Tuberculosis|tuberculosis.txt|0|Tuberculosis
(TB), also known colloquially as the
"white dea...
Malaria|malaria.txt|0|Malaria is a
mosquito-borne infectious disease that
affects ...
Cholera|cholera.txt|0|Cholera is an
infection of the small intestine by
some strai...
Ebola|ebola.txt|0|Ebola, also known as
Ebola virus disease (EVD) and Ebola
hem...
Measles|measles.txt|0|Measles is a
highly contagious, vaccine-preventable
infectio...
Mumps|mumps.txt|0|Mumps is a highly
contagious viral disease caused by the
mum...
Chickenpox|chickenpox.txt|0|Chickenpox,
also known as varicella, is a highly
contagious ...
Hepatitis|hepatitis.txt|0|Hepatitis is
inflammation of the liver tissue. Some
people o...
Meningitis|meningitis.txt|0|Meningitis
is acute or chronic inflammation of the
protectiv...
Sepsis|sepsis.txt|0|Sepsis is a
potentially life-threatening condition
that aris...
Antimicrobial
resistance|antimicrobial_resistance.txt|0|Antimicrobial
resistance occurs when microbes evolve
mechani...
Surgery|surgery.txt|0|Surgery is a
medical specialty that uses manual and
instrume...
Anesthesia|anesthesia.txt|0|Anesthesia
or anaesthesia is a state of
controlled, temporar...
X-ray|x_ray.txt|0|An X-ray (also known
in many languages as Rntgen radiation)
...
Magnetic resonance
imaging|magnetic_resonance_imaging.txt|0|Magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) is a medical
imaging techni...
CT scan|ct_scan.txt|0|A computed
tomography scan, formerly called
computed axial t...
Ultrasound|ultrasound.txt|0|Ultrasound
is sound with frequencies greater than
20 kiloher...
Blood test|blood_test.txt|0|A blood
test is a laboratory analysis performed
on a blood s...
Biopsy|biopsy.txt|0|A biopsy is a
medical test commonly performed by a
surgeon, ...
Chemotherapy|chemotherapy.txt|0|Chemotherapy
is the type of cancer treatment that
uses one o...
Radiation
therapy|radiation_therapy.txt|0|Radiation
therapy or radiotherapy is a treatment
using ioniz...
Immunotherapy|immunotherapy.txt|0|Immunotherapy,
also known as biological therapy or
biotherap...
Organ
transplantation|organ_transplantation.txt|0|Organ
transplantation is a medical procedure
in which an org...
Blood
transfusion|blood_transfusion.txt|0|Blood
transfusion is the process of
transferring blood produ...
Cardiopulmonary
resuscitation|cardiopulmonary_resuscitation.txt|0|Cardiopulmonary
resuscitation (CPR) is an emergency
procedur...
First aid|first_aid.txt|0|First aid is
the first and immediate assistance
given to any...
Emergency
medicine|emergency_medicine.txt|0|Emergency
medicine is the medical specialty
concerned with t...
Pediatrics|pediatrics.txt|0|Pediatrics,
also spelled paediatrics, also known as
underage...
Geriatrics|geriatrics.txt|0|Geriatrics,
or geriatric medicine, is a medical
specialty fo...
Psychiatry|psychiatry.txt|0|Psychiatry
is the medical specialty devoted to the
diagnosis...
Psychology|psychology.txt|0|Psychology
is the scientific study of behavior and
mind. Its...
Mental
health|mental_health.txt|0|Mental
health encompasses emotional,
psychological, and soci...
Depression
(mood)|depression_mood.txt|0|Depression
is a mental state of low mood and
aversion to act...
Anxiety|anxiety.txt|0|Anxiety is an
emotion characterized by an unpleasant
state o...
Schizophrenia|schizophrenia.txt|0|Schizophrenia
is a mental disorder characterized
variously b...
Bipolar
disorder|bipolar_disorder.txt|0|Bipolar
disorder (BD), previously known as
manic depression,...
Post-traumatic stress
disorder|post_traumatic_stress_disorder.txt|0|Post-traumatic
stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental
disorder t...
Autism|autism.txt|0|Autism, also known
as autism spectrum disorder (ASD), is a
c...
Attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder|attention_deficit_hyperactivity_disorder.txt|0|Attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
is a neurode...
Eating
disorder|eating_disorder.txt|0|An
eating disorder is a mental disorder
defined by abnormal ...
Addiction|addiction.txt|0|Addiction is
a neuropsychological disorder
characterized by ...
Nutrition|nutrition.txt|0|Nutrition is
the biochemical and physiological
process by wh...
Vitamin|vitamin.txt|0|Vitamins are
organic molecules that are essential to
an orga...
Mineral
(nutrient)|mineral_nutrient.txt|0|In
the context of nutrition, a mineral is
a chemical element...
Protein|protein.txt|0|Proteins are
large biomolecules and macromolecules
that comp...
Carbohydrate|carbohydrate.txt|0|A
carbohydrate is a sugar (saccharide) or
a sugar derivative...
Fat|fat.txt|0|In nutrition, biology,
and chemistry, fat usually means any
...
Fiber|fiber.txt|0|Fiber is a natural or
artificial substance that is
significa...
Water|water.txt|0|Water is an inorganic
compound with the chemical formula
H2O...
Diet
(nutrition)|diet_nutrition.txt|0|In
nutrition, diet is the sum of food
consumed by a person o...
Exercise|exercise.txt|0|Exercise or
working out is physical activity that
enhances o...
Physical
fitness|physical_fitness.txt|0|Physical
fitness is a state of health and
well-being and, mo...
Yoga|yoga.txt|0|Yoga is a group of
physical, mental, and spiritual
practices...
Meditation|meditation.txt|0|Meditation
is a practice in which an individual
uses a techn...
Sleep|sleep.txt|0|Sleep is a state of
reduced mental and physical activity in
...
Stress
(biology)|stress_biology.txt|0|Stress,
whether physiological, biological or
psychological, ...
Pregnancy|pregnancy.txt|0|Pregnancy is
the time during which one or more
offspring ges...
Childbirth|childbirth.txt|0|Childbirth,
also known as labour, parturition and
delivery, ...
Breastfeeding|breastfeeding.txt|0|Breastfeeding,
also known as nursing, is the process
where b...
Birth control|birth_control.txt|0|Birth
control, also known as contraception,
anticonception, ...
Sexually transmitted
infection|sexually_transmitted_infection.txt|0|A
sexually transmitted infection (STI),
also referred to as ...
Technology|technology.txt|0|Technology
is the application of conceptual
knowledge to ach...
Engineering|engineering.txt|0|Engineering
is the practice of using natural
science, mathem...
Invention|invention.txt|0|An invention
is a unique or novel device, method,
compositio...
Innovation|innovation.txt|0|Innovation
is the practical implementation of
ideas that res...
Electricity|electricity.txt|0|Electricity
is the set of physical phenomena
associated with...
Electronics|electronics.txt|0|Electronics
is a scientific and engineering
discipline that ...
Circuit|circuit.txt|0|Circuit may refer
to:
Resistor|resistor.txt|0|A resistor is a
passive two-terminal electronic
component th...
Capacitor|capacitor.txt|0|In
electronics, a capacitor is a device
that stores electric...
Inductor|inductor.txt|0|An inductor,
also called a coil, choke, or reactor,
is a pas...
Diode|diode.txt|0|A diode is a
two-terminal electronic component that
conducts...
Light-emitting
diode|light_emitting_diode.txt|0|A
light-emitting diode (LED) is a
semiconductor device that ...
Battery|battery.txt|0|Battery or
batterie most often refers to:Electric
battery, a...
Solar panel|solar_panel.txt|0|A solar
panel is a device that converts
sunlight into electr...
Wind turbine|wind_turbine.txt|0|A wind
turbine is a device that converts the
kinetic energy ...
Nuclear
power|nuclear_power.txt|0|Nuclear power
is the use of nuclear reactions to
produce ele...
Fossil fuel|fossil_fuel.txt|0|A fossil
fuel is a flammable carbon compound- or
hydrocarbon...
Renewable
energy|renewable_energy.txt|0|Renewable
energy is energy made from renewable
natural resou...
Hydroelectricity|hydroelectricity.txt|0|Hydroelectricity,
or hydroelectric power, is electricity
gen...
Geothermal
energy|geothermal_energy.txt|0|Geothermal
energy is thermal energy extracted from
the Earth...
Engine|engine.txt|0|An engine or motor
is a machine designed to convert one or
m...
Internal combustion
engine|internal_combustion_engine.txt|0|An
internal combustion engine is a heat
engine in which the ...
Electric motor|electric_motor.txt|0|An
electric motor is a machine that
converts electrical ener...
Steam engine|steam_engine.txt|0|A steam
engine is a heat engine that performs
mechanical wor...
Jet engine|jet_engine.txt|0|A jet
engine is a type of reaction engine,
discharging a fas...
Rocket|rocket.txt|0|A rocket is a
vehicle that uses jet propulsion to
accelerate...
Satellite|satellite.txt|0|A satellite
or an artificial satellite is an
object, typical...
Telescope|telescope.txt|0|A telescope
is a device used to observe distant
objects by t...
Microscope|microscope.txt|0|A
microscope is a laboratory instrument
used to examine obje...
Camera|camera.txt|0|A camera is an
instrument used to capture and store
images a...
Printing press|printing_press.txt|0|A
printing press is a mechanical device
for applying pressur...
Telephone|telephone.txt|0|A telephone,
commonly shortened to phone, is a
telecommunica...
Radio|radio.txt|0|Radio is the
technology of communicating using radio
waves. ...
Television|television.txt|0|Television
(TV) is a telecommunication medium for
transmitti...
Internet|internet.txt|0|The Internet is
the global system of interconnected
computer...
World Wide Web|world_wide_web.txt|0|The
World Wide Web is an information system
that enables con...
Email|email.txt|0|Electronic mail is a
method of transmitting and receiving
di...
Social media|social_media.txt|0|Social
media are new media technologies that
facilitate the ...
Smartphone|smartphone.txt|0|A
smartphone is a mobile device that
combines the functional...
Computer|computer.txt|0|A computer is a
machine that can be programmed to
automatica...
Laptop|laptop.txt|0|A laptop computer
or notebook computer, also known as a
lapt...
Tablet computer|tablet_computer.txt|0|A
tablet computer, commonly shortened to
tablet or simply ta...
Server
(computing)|server_computing.txt|0|A
server is a computer that provides
information to other co...
Router
(computing)|router_computing.txt|0|A
router is a computer and networking
device that forwards d...
Modem|modem.txt|0|A
modulator-demodulator, commonly
referred to as a modem, is...
Wi-Fi|wi_fi.txt|0|Wi-Fi is a family of
wireless network protocols based on
the...
Bluetooth|bluetooth.txt|0|Bluetooth is
a short-range wireless technology
standard that...
USB|usb.txt|0|Universal Serial Bus
(USB) is an industry standard,
develope...
HDMI|hdmi.txt|0|HDMI is a brand of
proprietary digital interface used to
tra...
Hard disk drive|hard_disk_drive.txt|0|A
hard disk drive (HDD), hard disk, hard
drive, or fixed dis...
Solid-state
drive|solid_state_drive.txt|0|A
solid-state drive (SSD) is a type of
solid-state storage d...
Random-access
memory|random_access_memory.txt|0|Random-access
memory is a form of electronic computer
memory...
Central processing
unit|central_processing_unit.txt|0|A
central processing unit (CPU), also
called a central proce...
Graphics processing
unit|graphics_processing_unit.txt|0|A
graphics processing unit (GPU) is a
specialized electronic...
Motherboard|motherboard.txt|0|A
motherboard, also called a mainboard, a
system board, a lo...
Operating
system|operating_system.txt|0|An
operating system (OS) is system
software that manages com...
Software|software.txt|0|Software
consists of computer programs that
instruct the exe...
Application
software|application_software.txt|0|Application
software is software that is intended
for end-us...
Web browser|web_browser.txt|0|A web
browser, often shortened to browser, is
an application...
Search engine|search_engine.txt|0|A
search engine is a software system that
provides hyperlink...
Artificial
intelligence|artificial_intelligence.txt|0|Artificial
intelligence (AI) is the capability of
computatio...
Robot|robot.txt|0|A robot is a
machineespecially one programmable by a
compute...
Automation|automation.txt|0|Automation
describes a wide range of technologies
that reduc...
3D printing|3d_printing.txt|0|3D
printing, also called additive
manufacturing, is the cons...
Nanotechnology|nanotechnology.txt|0|Nanotechnology
is the manipulation of matter with at
least o...
Biotechnology|biotechnology.txt|0|Biotechnology
is a multidisciplinary field that
involves the...
Genetic
engineering|genetic_engineering.txt|0|Genetic
engineering, also called genetic
modification or gen...
CRISPR|crispr.txt|0|CRISPR is a family
of DNA sequences found in the genomes
of ...
Cloning|cloning.txt|0|Cloning is the
process of producing individual
organisms wit...
Stem cell|stem_cell.txt|0|In
multicellular organisms, stem cells are
undifferentiated ...
Prosthesis|prosthesis.txt|0|In
medicine, a prosthesis, or a prosthetic
implant, is an ar...
Wheelchair|wheelchair.txt|0|A
wheelchair is a mobilized form of chair
using two or more ...
Glasses|glasses.txt|0|Glasses, also
known as eyeglasses, spectacles, or
colloquial...
Contact lens|contact_lens.txt|0|Contact
lenses, or simply contacts, are thin
lenses placed d...
Hearing aid|hearing_aid.txt|0|A hearing
aid is a device designed to improve
hearing by mak...
Pacemaker|pacemaker.txt|0|A pacemaker,
also known as an artificial cardiac
pacemaker, ...
Artificial
heart|artificial_heart.txt|0|An
artificial heart is a device that
replaces the heart. Art...
Dialysis|dialysis.txt|0|Dialysis may
refer to:Dialysis (chemistry), a
process of sep...

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~6,591
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
