**JESUS**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Jesus

Jesus, also referred to as Jesus
Christ, Jesus of Nazareth, and many
other names and titles, was a
1st-century Jewish preacher and
religious leader in the Roman province
of Judaea. He is the central figure of
Christianity, the world's largest
religion. Most Christians consider
Jesus to be the incarnation of God the
Son and awaited messiah, or Christ, a
descendant from the Davidic line that
is prophesied in the Old Testament.
Virtually all modern scholars of
antiquity agree that Jesus existed
historically. Accounts of Jesus's life
are contained in the Gospels,
especially the four canonical Gospels
in the New Testament. Since the
Enlightenment, academic research has
yielded various views on the historical
reliability of the Gospels and how
closely they reflect the historical
Jesus.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~125
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
