**LAPTOP**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Laptop

A laptop computer or notebook computer,
also known as a laptop or notebook, is
a small, portable personal computer
(PC). Laptops typically have a
clamshell form factor with a flat-panel
screen on the inside of the upper lid
and an alphanumeric keyboard and
pointing device on the inside of the
lower lid. Most of the computer's
internal hardware is in the lower part,
under the keyboard, although many
modern laptops have a built-in webcam
at the top of the screen, and some even
feature a touchscreen display. In most
cases, unlike tablet computers which
run on mobile operating systems,
laptops tend to run on desktop
operating systems, which were
originally developed for desktop
computers.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~115
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
