**LIVER**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Liver

The liver is a major metabolic organ
exclusively found in vertebrates, which
performs many essential biological
functions such as detoxification of the
organism, and the synthesis of various
proteins and various other biochemicals
necessary for digestion and growth. In
humans, it is located in the right
upper quadrant of the abdomen, below
the diaphragm and mostly shielded by
the lower right rib cage. Its other
metabolic roles include carbohydrate
metabolism, the production of a number
of hormones, conversion and storage of
nutrients such as glucose and glycogen,
and the decomposition of red blood
cells. Anatomical and medical
terminology often use the prefix hepat-
from -, from the Greek word for liver,
such as hepatology, and hepatitis.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~117
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
