**LOGIC**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Logic

Logic is the study of correct
reasoning. It includes both formal and
informal logic. Formal logic is the
study of deductively valid inferences
or logical truths. It examines how
conclusions follow from premises based
on the structure of arguments alone,
independent of their topic and content.
Informal logic is associated with
informal fallacies, critical thinking,
and argumentation theory. Informal
logic examines arguments expressed in
natural language whereas formal logic
uses formal language. When used as a
countable noun, the term "a logic"
refers to a specific logical formal
system that articulates a proof system.
Logic plays a central role in many
fields, such as philosophy,
mathematics, computer science, and
linguistics.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~111
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
