**LUDWIG VAN BEETHOVEN**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Ludwig van Beethoven

Ludwig van Beethoven was a German
composer and pianist. One of the most
revered figures in the history of
Western music, his works rank among the
most performed of the classical music
repertoire and span the transition from
the Classical period to the Romantic
era. Beethoven's early period, during
which he forged his craft, is typically
considered to have lasted until 1802.
From 1802 to around 1812, his middle
period showed an individual development
from the styles of Joseph Haydn and
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and is
sometimes characterised as heroic.
During this time, Beethoven began to
grow increasingly deaf. In his late
period, from 1812 to 1827, he extended
his innovations in musical form and
expression.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~119
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
