**LUNG**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Lung

The lungs are the primary organs of the
respiratory system in many animals,
including humans. In mammals and most
other tetrapods, two lungs are located
near the backbone on either side of the
heart. Their function in the
respiratory system is to extract oxygen
from the atmosphere and transfer it
into the bloodstream, and to release
carbon dioxide from the bloodstream
into the atmosphere, in a process of
gas exchange. Respiration is driven by
different muscular systems in different
species. Mammals, reptiles and birds
use their musculoskeletal systems to
support and foster breathing. In early
tetrapods, air was driven into the
lungs by the pharyngeal muscles via
buccal pumping, a mechanism still seen
in amphibians. In humans, the primary
muscle that drives breathing is the
diaphragm. The lungs also provide
airflow that makes vocalisation
including speech possible.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~138
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
