**MISSISSIPPI RIVER**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Mississippi River

The Mississippi River is the primary
river of the largest drainage basin in
the United States. It is the
second-longest river in the United
States, behind only the Missouri. From
its traditional source of Lake Itasca
in northern Minnesota, it flows
generally south for 2,340mi (3,770km)
to the Mississippi River Delta in the
Gulf of Mexico. With its many
tributaries, the Mississippi's
watershed drains all or parts of 32
U.S. states and two Canadian provinces
between the Rocky and Appalachian
mountains. The river either borders or
passes through the states of Minnesota,
Wisconsin, Iowa, Illinois, Missouri,
Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas,
Mississippi, and Louisiana. The main
stem is entirely within the United
States; the total drainage basin is
1,151,000sqmi (2,980,000km2), of which
only about one percent is in Canada.
The Mississippi ranks as the world's
tenth-largest river by discharge flow,
and the largest in North America.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~146
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
