**NANOTECHNOLOGY**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Nanotechnology

Nanotechnology is the manipulation of
matter with at least one dimension
sized from 1 to 100 nanometers (nm). At
this scale, commonly known as the
nanoscale, surface area and quantum
mechanical effects become important in
describing properties of matter. This
definition of nanotechnology includes
all types of research and technologies
that deal with these special
properties. It is common to see the
plural form "nanotechnologies" as well
as "nanoscale technologies" to refer to
research and applications whose common
trait is scale. An earlier
understanding of nanotechnology
referred to the particular
technological goal of precisely
manipulating atoms and molecules for
fabricating macroscale products, now
referred to as molecular
nanotechnology.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~109
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
