**NERVOUS SYSTEM**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Nervous system

In biology, the nervous system is the
highly complex part of an animal that
coordinates its actions and sensory
information by transmitting signals to
and from different parts of its body.
The nervous system detects
environmental changes that impact the
body, then works in tandem with the
endocrine system to respond to such
events. Nervous tissue first arose in
wormlike organisms about 550 to 600
million years ago. In vertebrates, it
consists of two main parts, the central
nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral
nervous system (PNS). The CNS consists
of the brain and spinal cord. The PNS
consists mainly of nerves, which are
enclosed bundles of the long fibers, or
axons, that connect the CNS to every
other part of the body. Nerves that
transmit signals from the brain are
called motor nerves (efferent), while
those nerves that transmit information
from the body to the CNS are called
sensory nerves (afferent). The PNS is
divided into two separate subsystems,
the somatic and autonomic nervous
systems. The autonomic nervous system
is further subdivided into the
sympathetic, parasympathetic and
enteric nervous systems. The
sympathetic nervous system is activated
in cases of emergencies to mobilize
energy, while the parasympathetic
nervous system is activated when
organisms are in a relaxed state. The
enteric nervous system functions to
control the gastrointestinal system.
Nerves that exit from the brain are
called cranial nerves while those
exiting from the spinal cord are called
spinal nerves.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~241
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
