**OCEAN**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Ocean

The ocean is the body of salt water
that covers approximately 70.8% of
Earth. The ocean is conventionally
divided into large bodies of water,
which are also referred to as oceans,
and are themselves mostly divided into
seas, gulfs and subsequent bodies of
water. The ocean contains 97% of
Earth's water and is the primary
component of Earth's hydrosphere,
acting as a huge reservoir of heat for
Earth's energy budget, as well as for
its carbon cycle and water cycle,
forming the basis for climate and
weather patterns worldwide. The ocean
is essential to life on Earth,
harbouring most of Earth's animals and
protist life, originating
photosynthesis and therefore Earth's
atmospheric oxygen, still supplying
half of it.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~118
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
