**PABLO PICASSO**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Pablo Picasso

Pablo Diego Jos Francisco de Paula Juan
Nepomuceno Mara de los Remedios
Cipriano de la Santsima Trinidad Ruiz y
Picasso was a Spanish painter,
sculptor, printmaker, ceramicist, and
theatre designer who spent most of his
adult life in France. One of the most
influential artists of the 20th
century, he is known for co-founding
the Cubist movement, the invention of
constructed sculpture, the co-invention
of collage, and for the wide variety of
styles that he helped develop and
explore. Among his most famous works
are the proto-Cubist Les Demoiselles
d'Avignon (1907) and the anti-war
painting Guernica (1937), a dramatic
portrayal of the bombing of Guernica by
German and Italian air forces during
the Spanish Civil War.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~118
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
