**QUANTUM COMPUTING**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Quantum computing

A quantum computer is a computer that
uses quantum mechanical phenomena in an
essential way: it exploits superposed
and entangled states, and the
intrinsically non-deterministic
outcomes of quantum measurements, as
features of its computation. Quantum
computers can be viewed as sampling
from quantum systems that evolve in
ways classically described as operating
on an enormous number of possibilities
simultaneously, though still subject to
strict computational constraints. By
contrast, ordinary ("classical")
computers operate according to
deterministic rules. Any classical
computer can, in principle, be
replicated by a (classical) mechanical
device such as a Turing machine, with
only polynomial overhead in time.
Quantum computers, on the other hand
are believed to require exponentially
more resources to simulate classically.
It is widely believed that a scalable
quantum computer could perform some
calculations exponentially faster than
any classical computer. Theoretically,
a large-scale quantum computer could
break some widely used public-key
cryptographic schemes and aid
physicists in performing physical
simulations. However, current hardware
implementations of quantum computation
are largely experimental and only
suitable for specialized tasks.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~173
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
