**RENEWABLE ENERGY**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Renewable energy

Renewable energy is energy made from
renewable natural resources that are
replenished on a human timescale. The
most widely used renewable energy types
are solar energy, wind power, and
hydropower. Bioenergy and geothermal
power are also significant in some
countries. Some also consider nuclear
power a renewable power source,
although this is controversial, as
nuclear energy requires mining uranium,
a nonrenewable resource. Renewable
energy installations can be large or
small and are suited for both urban and
rural areas. Renewable energy is often
deployed together with further
electrification. This has several
benefits: electricity can move heat and
vehicles efficiently and is clean at
the point of consumption. Variable
renewable energy sources are those that
have a fluctuating nature, such as wind
power and solar power. In contrast,
controllable renewable energy sources
include dammed hydroelectricity,
bioenergy, or geothermal power.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~140
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
