**RESISTOR**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Resistor

A resistor is a passive two-terminal
electronic component that implements
electrical resistance as a circuit
element. In electronic circuits,
resistors are used to reduce current
flow, adjust signal levels, to divide
voltages, bias active elements, and
terminate transmission lines, among
other uses. High-power resistors that
can dissipate many watts of electrical
power as heat may be used as part of
motor controls, in power distribution
systems, or as test loads for
generators. Fixed resistors have
resistances that only change slightly
with temperature, time or operating
voltage. Variable resistors can be used
to adjust circuit elements, or as
sensing devices for heat, light,
humidity, force, or chemical activity.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~108
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
