**SAUDI ARABIA**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Saudi Arabia

Saudi Arabia, officially the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia (KSA), is a country in
West Asia. Located in the center of the
Middle East, it covers the bulk of the
Arabian Peninsula and has a land area
of about 2,150,000km2 (830,000sqmi),
making it the fifth-largest country in
Asia, the largest in the Middle East,
and the twelfth-largest in the world.
It is bordered by the Red Sea to the
west; Jordan, Iraq, and Kuwait to the
north; the Persian Gulf, Bahrain, Qatar
and the United Arab Emirates to the
east; Oman to the southeast; and Yemen
to the south. The Gulf of Aqaba in the
northwest separates Saudi Arabia from
Egypt and Israel. Saudi Arabia is the
only country with a coastline along
both the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf,
and most of its terrain consists of
arid desert, lowland, steppe, and
mountains. The capital and largest city
is Riyadh; other major cities include
Jeddah and the two holiest cities in
Islam, Mecca and Medina. With a
population of almost 32.2 million,
Saudi Arabia is the fourth most
populous country in the Arab world.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~186
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
