**SMARTPHONE**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Smartphone

A smartphone is a mobile device that
combines the functionality of a
traditional mobile phone with advanced
computing capabilities. It typically
has a touchscreen interface, allowing
users to access a wide range of
applications and services, such as web
browsing, email, and social media, as
well as multimedia playback and
streaming. Smartphones have built-in
cameras, GPS navigation, and support
for various communication methods,
including voice calls, text messaging,
and internet-based messaging apps.
Smartphones are distinguished from
older-design feature phones by their
more advanced hardware capabilities and
extensive mobile operating systems,
access to the internet, business
applications, mobile payments, and
multimedia functionality, including
music, video, gaming, radio, and
television.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~109
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
