**SOLAR PANEL**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Solar panel

A solar panel is a device that converts
sunlight into electricity by using
multiple solar modules that consist of
photovoltaic (PV) cells. PV cells are
made of materials that produce excited
electrons when exposed to light. These
electrons flow through a circuit and
produce direct current electricity,
which can be used to power various
devices or be stored in batteries.
Solar panels can be known as solar cell
panels, or solar electric panels. Solar
panels are usually arranged in groups
called arrays or systems. A
photovoltaic system consists of one or
more solar panels, an inverter that
converts direct current electricity to
alternating current electricity, and
sometimes other components such as
controllers, meters, and trackers. Most
panels are in solar farms or rooftop
solar panels which supply the
electricity grid.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~132
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
