**SPAIN**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Spain

Spain, officially the Kingdom of Spain,
is a country in Southern and Western
Europe with territories in North
Africa. Featuring the southernmost
point of continental Europe, it is the
largest country in Southern Europe and
the fourth-most populous European Union
(EU) member state. Spanning the
majority of the Iberian Peninsula, its
territory also includes the Canary
Islands, in the Eastern Atlantic Ocean,
the Balearic Islands, in the Western
Mediterranean Sea, and the autonomous
cities of Ceuta and Melilla, in
mainland Africa. Peninsular Spain is
bordered to the north by France,
Andorra, and the Bay of Biscay; to the
east and south by the Mediterranean Sea
and Gibraltar; and to the west by
Portugal and the Atlantic Ocean.
Spain's capital and largest city is
Madrid; other major urban areas include
Barcelona, Valencia, Seville, Zaragoza,
Mlaga, Murcia, and Palma de Mallorca.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~140
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
