**STEAM ENGINE**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Steam engine

A steam engine is a heat engine that
performs mechanical work using steam as
its working fluid. The steam engine
uses the force produced by steam
pressure to push a piston back and
forth inside a cylinder. This pushing
force can be transformed by a
connecting rod and crank into
rotational force for work. The term
"steam engine" is most commonly applied
to reciprocating engines as just
described, although some authorities
have also referred to the steam turbine
and devices such as Hero's aeolipile as
"steam engines". The essential feature
of steam engines is that they are
external combustion engines, where the
working fluid is separated from the
combustion products. The ideal
thermodynamic cycle used to analyze
this process is called the Rankine
cycle. In general usage, the term steam
engine can refer to either complete
steam plants, such as railway steam
locomotives and portable engines, or
may refer to the piston or turbine
machinery alone, as in the beam engine
and stationary steam engine.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~167
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
