**STOMACH**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Stomach

The stomach is a muscular, hollow organ
in the upper gastrointestinal tract of
humans and many other animals,
including several invertebrates. The
Ancient Greek name for the stomach is
gaster which is used as gastric in
medical terms related to the stomach.
The stomach has a dilated structure and
functions as a vital organ in the
digestive system. The stomach is
involved in the gastric phase of
digestion, following the cephalic phase
in which the sight and smell of food
and the act of chewing are stimuli. In
the stomach a chemical breakdown of
food takes place by means of secreted
digestive enzymes and gastric acid. It
also plays a role in regulating gut
microbiota, influencing digestion and
overall health.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~121
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
