**TRANSISTOR**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Transistor

A transistor is a semiconductor device
used to amplify or switch electrical
signals and power. It is one of the
basic building blocks of modern
electronics. It is composed of
semiconductor material, usually with at
least three terminals for connection to
an electronic circuit. A voltage or
current applied to one pair of the
transistor's terminals controls the
current through another pair of
terminals. Because the controlled
(output) power can be higher than the
controlling (input) power, a transistor
can amplify a signal. Some transistors
are packaged individually, but many
more in miniature form are found
embedded in integrated circuits.
Because transistors are the key active
components in practically all modern
electronics, many people consider them
one of the 20th century's greatest
inventions.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~124
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
