**UNITED KINGDOM**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

United Kingdom

The United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, commonly known as the
United Kingdom (UK) or Britain, is a
country in Northwestern Europe, off the
coast of the continental mainland. It
comprises England, Scotland, Wales and
Northern Ireland, with a population of
over 69 million in 2024. The UK
includes the island of Great Britain,
the north-eastern part of the island of
Ireland, and most of the smaller
islands within the British Isles,
covering 94,354 square miles
(244,376km2). It shares a land border
with the Republic of Ireland and is
otherwise surrounded by the Atlantic
Ocean, the North Sea, the English
Channel, the Celtic Sea and the Irish
Sea, while maintaining sovereignty over
the British Overseas Territories. The
capital and largest city of both
England and the UK is London;
Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast are the
national capitals of Scotland, Wales
and Northern Ireland.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~147
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
