**VIETNAM WAR**

Category: Wikipedia
---------------------------------------

Vietnam War

The Vietnam War was an armed conflict
in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia fought
between North Vietnam and South Vietnam
and their allies. North Vietnam was
supported by the Soviet Union and
China, while South Vietnam was
supported by the United States and
other anti-communist nations. The
conflict was the second of the
Indochina wars and a proxy war of the
Cold War between the Soviet Union and
US. The Vietnam War was one of the
postcolonial wars of national
liberation, a theater in the Cold War,
and a civil war, with civil warfare a
defining feature from the outset.
Direct US military involvement
escalated from 1965 until its
withdrawal in 1973. The fighting
spilled into the Laotian and Cambodian
Civil Wars, which ended with all three
countries becoming communist in 1975.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Womens Suffrage
• Tornado
• Carl Jung
• Arithmetic
• Brain


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~133
Category: Wikipedia

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
