**C**

Category: Wikipedia › Programming
---------------------------------------

C++

C++ is a high-level, general-purpose
programming language created by Danish
computer scientist Bjarne Stroustrup.
First released in 1985 as an extension
of the C programming language, adding
object-oriented (OOP) features, it has
since expanded significantly over time
adding more OOP and other features; as
of 1997/C++98 standardization, C++ has
added functional features, in addition
to facilities for low-level memory
manipulation for systems like
microcomputers or to make operating
systems like Linux or Windows, and even
later came features like generic
programming. C++ is usually implemented
as a compiled language, and many
vendors provide C++ compilers,
including the Free Software Foundation,
LLVM, Microsoft, Intel, Embarcadero,
Oracle, and IBM.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Database
• Operating System
• Cryptocurrency
• Python Programming Language
• Sql


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~108
Category: Wikipedia › Programming

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
