**GO PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE**

Category: Wikipedia › Programming
---------------------------------------

Go (programming language)

Go is a high-level general purpose
programming language that is statically
typed and compiled. It is known for the
simplicity of its syntax and the
efficiency of development that it
enables by the inclusion of a large
standard library supplying many needs
for common projects. It was designed at
Google in 2007 by Robert Griesemer, Rob
Pike, and Ken Thompson, and publicly
announced in November of 2009. It is
syntactically similar to C, but also
has garbage collection, structural
typing, and CSP-style concurrency. It
is often referred to as Golang to avoid
ambiguity and because of its former
domain name, golang.org, but its proper
name is Go.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Database
• Operating System
• Cryptocurrency
• Python Programming Language
• Sql


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~110
Category: Wikipedia › Programming

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
