**CHARLES DARWIN**

Category: Wikipedia › People
---------------------------------------

Charles Darwin

Charles Robert Darwin was an English
naturalist, geologist, and biologist,
widely known for his contributions to
evolutionary biology. His proposition
that all species of life have descended
from a common ancestor is now generally
accepted and considered a fundamental
scientific concept. In a joint
presentation with Alfred Russel
Wallace, he introduced his scientific
theory that this branching pattern of
evolution resulted from a process he
called natural selection, in which the
struggle for existence has a similar
effect to the artificial selection
involved in selective breeding. Darwin
has been described as one of the most
influential figures in human history
and was honoured by burial in
Westminster Abbey.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Julius Caesar
• George Washington
• Albert Einstein
• Isaac Newton
• William Shakespeare


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~110
Category: Wikipedia › People

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
