**IMMUNE SYSTEM**

Category: Wikipedia › Health
---------------------------------------

Immune system

The immune system is a network of
biological systems that protects an
organism from diseases. It detects and
responds to a wide variety of
pathogens, such as viruses, bacteria,
and parasites, as well as cancer cells
and objects, such as wood
splinters—distinguishing them from the
organism's own healthy tissue. Many
species have two major subsystems of
the immune system. The innate immune
system provides a preconfigured
response to broad groups of situations
and stimuli. The adaptive immune system
provides a tailored response to each
stimulus by learning to recognize
molecules it has previously
encountered. Both use molecules and
cells to perform their functions.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Dehydration
• Medicine
• Cardiovascular Disease
• Vaccine
• Diabetes


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~105
Category: Wikipedia › Health

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
