**FRACTAL**

Category: Wikipedia › Mathematics
---------------------------------------

Fractal

In mathematics, a fractal is a
geometric shape containing detailed
structure at arbitrarily small scales,
usually having a fractal dimension
strictly exceeding the topological
dimension. Many fractals appear similar
at various scales, as illustrated in
successive magnifications of the
Mandelbrot set. This exhibition of
similar patterns at increasingly
smaller scales is called
self-similarity, also known as
expanding symmetry or unfolding
symmetry; if this replication is
exactly the same at every scale, as in
the Menger sponge, the shape is called
affine self-similar. Fractal geometry
relates to the mathematical branch of
measure theory by their Hausdorff
dimension.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Arithmetic
• Hexagon
• Golden Ratio
• Calculus
• Cone


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~97
Category: Wikipedia › Mathematics

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
