**TRIANGLE**

Category: Wikipedia › Mathematics
---------------------------------------

Triangle

A triangle is a polygon with three
corners and three sides, one of the
basic shapes in geometry. The corners,
also called vertices, are
zero-dimensional points while the sides
connecting them, also called edges, are
one-dimensional line segments. A
triangle has three internal angles,
each one bounded by a pair of adjacent
edges; the sum of angles of a triangle
always equals a straight angle. The
triangle is a plane figure and its
interior is a planar region. Sometimes
an arbitrary edge is chosen to be the
base, in which case the opposite vertex
is called the apex; the shortest
segment between the base and apex is
the height. The area of a triangle
equals one-half the product of height
and base length.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Arithmetic
• Hexagon
• Golden Ratio
• Calculus
• Cone


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~124
Category: Wikipedia › Mathematics

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
