**ALBANIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Albania

Albania, officially the Republic of
Albania, is a country in Southeast
Europe. It is located in the Balkans,
on the Adriatic and Ionian Seas within
the Mediterranean Sea, and shares land
borders with Montenegro to the
northwest, Kosovo to the northeast,
North Macedonia to the east and Greece
to the south. With an area of 28,748
km2 (11,100 sq mi), it has a varied
range of climatic, geological,
hydrological and morphological
conditions. Albania's landscapes range
from rugged snow-capped mountains in
the Albanian Alps and the Korab,
Skanderbeg, Pindus and Ceraunian
Mountains, to fertile lowland plains
extending from the Adriatic and Ionian
seacoasts. Tirana is the capital and
largest city in the country, followed
by Durrës, Vlorë, and Shkodër.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~119
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
