**BOLIVIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Bolivia

Bolivia, officially the Plurinational
State of Bolivia, is a landlocked
country located in central South
America. The country features diverse
geography, including vast Amazonian
plains, tropical lowlands, mountains,
the Gran Chaco, warm valleys,
high-altitude Andean plateaus, and
snow-capped peaks, encompassing a wide
range of climates and biomes across its
regions and cities. It includes part of
the Pantanal, the largest tropical
wetland in the world, along its eastern
border. It is bordered by Brazil to the
north and east, Paraguay to the
southeast, Argentina to the south,
Chile to the southwest, and Peru to the
west. The seat of government is La Paz,
which contains the executive,
legislative, and electoral branches of
government, while the constitutional
capital is Sucre, the seat of the
judiciary. The largest city and
principal industrial center is Santa
Cruz de la Sierra, located on the
Llanos Orientales, a mostly flat region
in the east of the country with a
diverse non-Andean culture.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~158
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
