**CANADA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Canada

Canada is a country in North America.
Its ten provinces and three territories
extend from the Atlantic Ocean to the
Pacific Ocean and northward into the
Arctic Ocean, making it the
second-largest country by total area,
with the longest coastline of any
country. Its border with the United
States is the longest international
land border. The country is
characterized by a wide range of both
meteorologic and geological regions.
With a population of over 41 million,
it has widely varying population
densities, with the majority residing
in its urban areas and large areas
being sparsely populated. Canada's
capital is Ottawa and its three largest
metropolitan areas are Toronto,
Montreal, and Vancouver.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~112
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
