**CHILE**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Chile

Chile, officially the Republic of
Chile, is a country in western South
America. It is the southernmost country
in the world and the closest to
Antarctica, stretching along a narrow
strip of land between the Andes
Mountains and the Pacific Ocean. Chile
had a population of 17.5 million as of
the latest census in 2017 and has a
territorial area of 756,102 square
kilometers (291,933 sq mi), sharing
borders with Peru to the north, Bolivia
to the northeast, Argentina to the
east, and the Drake Passage to the
south. The country also controls
several Pacific islands, including Juan
Fernández, Isla Salas y Gómez,
Desventuradas, and Easter Island, and
claims about 1,250,000 square
kilometers (480,000 sq mi) of
Antarctica as the Chilean Antarctic
Territory. The capital and largest city
of Chile is Santiago, and the national
language is Spanish.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~139
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
