**COLOMBIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Colombia

Colombia, officially the Republic of
Colombia, is a country primarily
located in South America with insular
regions in North America. The Colombian
mainland is bordered by the Caribbean
Sea to the north, Venezuela to the east
and northeast, Brazil to the southeast,
Peru and Ecuador to the south and
southwest, the Pacific Ocean to the
west, and Panama to the northwest.
Colombia is divided into 32
departments. The Capital District of
Bogotá is also the country's largest
city hosting the main financial and
cultural hub. Other major urban areas
include Medellín, Cali, Barranquilla,
Cartagena, Santa Marta, Cúcuta, Ibagué,
Villavicencio and Bucaramanga. It
covers an area of 1,141,748 square
kilometers and has a population of
around 52 million. Its rich cultural
heritage—including language, religion,
cuisine, and art—reflects its history
as a colony, fusing cultural elements
brought by immigration from Europe and
the Middle East, with those brought by
the African diaspora, as well as with
those of the various Indigenous
civilizations that predate
colonization. Spanish is the official
language, although Creole, English and
64 other languages are recognized
regionally.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~179
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
