**COMOROS**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Comoros

The Comoros, officially the Union of
the Comoros, is an archipelagic country
made up of three islands in
Southeastern Africa, located at the
northern end of the Mozambique Channel
in the Indian Ocean. Its capital and
largest city is Moroni. The religion of
the majority of the population, and the
official state religion, is Islam.
Comoros proclaimed its independence
from France on 6 July 1975. The Comoros
is the only country of the Arab League
which is entirely in the Southern
Hemisphere. It is a member state of the
African Union, the Organisation
internationale de la Francophonie, the
Organisation of Islamic Co-operation,
and the Indian Ocean Commission. The
country has three official languages:
Comorian, French and Arabic.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~118
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
