**CYPRUS**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Cyprus

Cyprus, officially the Republic of
Cyprus, is an island country in the
eastern Mediterranean Sea, located off
the coast of the Levant in West Asia.
Despite its geographical location, its
cultural identity and geopolitical
orientation are overwhelmingly
Southeast European. Cyprus is the third
largest and third most populous island
in the Mediterranean, after Sicily and
Sardinia. It is located southeast of
Greece, south of Turkey, west of Syria
and Lebanon, northwest of Palestine and
Israel, and north of Egypt. Its capital
is Nicosia and largest city is
Limassol. Cyprus hosts the British
military bases Akrotiri and Dhekelia,
whilst the northeast portion of the
island is de facto governed by the
self-declared, largely unrecognised
Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus,
which is separated from the Republic of
Cyprus by the United Nations Buffer
Zone.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~133
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
