**DENMARK**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Denmark

Denmark is a Nordic country in Northern
Europe. It is the metropole and most
populous constituent of the Kingdom of
Denmark, also known as the Danish
Realm, a constitutionally unitary state
that includes the autonomous
territories of the Faroe Islands and
Greenland in the north Atlantic Ocean.
Metropolitan Denmark, also called
"continental Denmark" or "Denmark
proper", consists of the northern
Jutland peninsula and an archipelago of
406 islands. It is the southernmost of
the Scandinavian countries, lying
southwest of Sweden, south of Norway,
and north of Germany, with which it
shares a short border. Denmark proper
is situated between the North Sea to
the west and the Baltic Sea to the
east.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~113
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
