**DOMINICAN REPUBLIC**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Dominican Republic

The Dominican Republic is a country in
the Caribbean located on the island of
Hispaniola in the Greater Antilles of
the Caribbean Sea in the North Atlantic
Ocean. It shares a maritime border with
Puerto Rico to the east and a land
border with Haiti to the west,
occupying the eastern five-eighths of
Hispaniola which, along with Saint
Martin, is one of only two islands in
the Caribbean shared by two sovereign
states. In the Antilles, the country is
the second-largest nation by area after
Cuba at 48,671 square kilometers
(18,792 sq mi) and second-largest by
population after Haiti with
approximately 11.4 million people in
2024, of whom 3.6 million reside in the
metropolitan area of Santo Domingo, the
capital city.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~123
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
