**ESTONIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Estonia

Estonia, officially the Republic of
Estonia, is a country in Northern
Europe. It is bordered to the north by
the Gulf of Finland across from
Finland, to the west by the Baltic Sea
across from Sweden, to the south by
Latvia, and to the east by Russia. The
territory of Estonia consists of the
mainland, the larger islands of
Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, and over 2,300
other islands and islets on the east
coast of the Baltic Sea. Its capital
Tallinn and Tartu are the two largest
urban areas. The Estonian language, of
the Finnic family, is the official
language and the first language of the
majority of its population of nearly
1.4 million. Estonia is one of the
least populous members of the European
Union and NATO.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~128
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
