**HUNGARY**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Hungary

Hungary is a landlocked country in
Central Europe. Spanning much of the
Carpathian Basin, it is bordered by
Slovakia to the north, Ukraine to the
northeast, Romania to the east and
southeast, Serbia to the south, Croatia
and Slovenia to the southwest, and
Austria to the west. Hungary lies
within the drainage basin of the Danube
River and is dominated by great lowland
plains. It has a population of 9.6
million, consisting mostly of ethnic
Hungarians (Magyars) and a significant
Romani minority. Hungarian is the
official language, and among the few in
Europe outside the Indo-European
family. Budapest is the country's
capital and largest city, and the
dominant cultural and economic centre.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~113
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
