**JOHANNESBURG**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Johannesburg

Johannesburg is the most populous city
in South Africa. The City of
Johannesburg itself has a population of
5,538,596, while the greater urban
agglomeration exceeds 14.8 million,
making it a megacity and one of the 100
largest urban areas in the world.
Johannesburg is the provincial capital
of Gauteng, the wealthiest province in
South Africa, and seat of the country's
highest court, the Constitutional
Court. Situated in the mineral rich
Witwatersrand hills, the city has long
been at the epicentre of international
mineral and gold trade. The richest
city in Africa by GDP and private
wealth, Johannesburg functions as the
economic capital of South Africa and is
home to the continent's largest stock
exchange, the Johannesburg Stock
Exchange.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~119
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
