**LATVIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Latvia

Latvia, officially the Republic of
Latvia, is a country in the Baltic
region of northern Europe. It is one of
the three Baltic states, along with
Estonia to the north and Lithuania to
the south. It borders Russia to the
east and Belarus to the southeast and
shares a maritime border with Sweden to
the west. Latvia covers an area of
64,589 km2 (24,938 sq mi), with a
population of 1.8 million. The country
has a temperate seasonal climate. Its
capital and largest city is Riga.
Latvians, who are the titular nation
and comprise 65.5% of the country's
population, belong to the
ethnolinguistic group of the Balts and
speak Latvian. Russians are the most
prominent minority in the country, at
almost a quarter of the population;
37.7% of the population speak Russian
as their native tongue.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~137
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
