**LONDON**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

London

London is the capital and largest city
of both England and the United Kingdom,
with a population of 9.1 million people
in 2024. Its wider metropolitan area is
the largest in Western Europe, with a
population of 15.1 million. London
stands on the River Thames in southeast
England, at the head of a 50-mile (80
km) tidal estuary down to the North
Sea, and has been a major settlement
for nearly 2,000 years. Its ancient
core and financial centre, the City of
London, was founded by the Romans as
Londinium and has retained its medieval
boundaries. The City of Westminster, to
the west of the City of London, has
been the centuries-long host of the
national government and parliament.
London grew rapidly in the 19th
century, becoming the world's largest
city at the time. Since the 19th
century the name "London" has referred
to the metropolis around the City of
London, historically split between the
counties of Middlesex, Essex, Surrey,
Kent and Hertfordshire, which since
1965 has largely comprised the
administrative area of Greater London,
governed by 33 local authorities and
the Greater London Authority.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~186
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
