**NEPAL**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Nepal

Nepal, officially the Federal
Democratic Republic of Nepal, is a
landlocked country in South Asia. It is
mainly situated in the Himalayas, but
also includes parts of the
Indo-Gangetic Plain. It borders the
Tibet Autonomous Region of China to the
north, and India to the south, east,
and west, while it is narrowly
separated from Bangladesh by the
Siliguri Corridor, and from Bhutan by
the Indian state of Sikkim. Nepal has a
diverse geography, including fertile
plains, subalpine forested hills, and
eight of the world's ten highest
mountains, including Mount Everest, the
highest point above mean sea level on
Earth. Kathmandu is the nation's
capital and its largest city. Nepal is
a multi-ethnic, multi-lingual,
multi-religious, and multi-cultural
state, with Nepali as the official
language.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles
• Turkey


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~125
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
