**NETHERLANDS**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Netherlands

The Netherlands, informally Holland, is
a country in Northwestern Europe, with
overseas territories in the Caribbean.
It is the largest of the four
constituent countries of the Kingdom of
the Netherlands. The Netherlands
consists of twelve provinces; it
borders Germany to the east and Belgium
to the south, with a North Sea
coastline to the north and west. It
shares maritime borders with the United
Kingdom, Germany, and Belgium. The
official language is Dutch, with West
Frisian as a secondary official
language in the province of Friesland.
Dutch, English, and Papiamento are
official in the Caribbean territories.
People from the Netherlands are
referred to as Dutch.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~107
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
