**NEW YORK CITY**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

New York City

New York, often called New York City
(NYC), is the most populous city in the
United States. It is located at the
southern tip of New York State on one
of the world's largest natural harbors.
The city comprises five boroughs, each
coextensive with its respective county.
The city is the geographical and
demographic center of both the
Northeast megalopolis and the New York
metropolitan area, the largest
metropolitan area in the United States
by both population and urban area. New
York is a global center of finance and
commerce, culture, technology,
entertainment and media, academics and
scientific output, the arts and
fashion, and, as home to the
headquarters of the United Nations,
international diplomacy.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles
• Turkey


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~118
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
