**NIGER**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Niger

Niger, officially the Republic of the
Niger, is a landlocked country in West
Africa. It is a unitary state bordered
by Libya to the northeast, Chad to the
east, Nigeria to the south, Benin and
Burkina Faso to the southwest, Mali to
the west, and Algeria to the northwest.
It covers a land area of almost 1.27
million km2 (490,000 sq mi), making it
the largest landlocked country in West
Africa and the second-largest
landlocked nation in Africa behind
Chad. Over 80% of its land area lies in
the Sahara. Its predominantly Muslim
population of about 25 million lives
mostly in clusters in the south and
west of the country. The capital,
Niamey, is located in Niger's southwest
corner along the namesake Niger River.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~125
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
