**PAKISTAN**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Pakistan

Pakistan, officially the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan, is a country in
South Asia. It is the fifth-most
populous country, with a population of
over 241.5 million, having the
second-largest Muslim population as of
2023. Islamabad is the nation's
capital, while Karachi is its largest
city and financial centre. Pakistan is
the 33rd-largest country by area.
Bounded by the Arabian Sea on the
south, the Gulf of Oman on the
southwest, and the Sir Creek on the
southeast, it shares land borders with
India to the east; Afghanistan to the
west; Iran to the southwest; and China
to the northeast. It shares a maritime
border with Oman in the Gulf of Oman,
and is separated from Tajikistan in the
northwest by Afghanistan's narrow
Wakhan Corridor.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~125
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
