**POLAND**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Poland

Poland, officially the Republic of
Poland, is a country in Central Europe.
It extends from the Baltic Sea in the
north to the Sudetes and Carpathian
Mountains in the south, and borders
Lithuania and Russia to the northeast;
Belarus and Ukraine to the east;
Slovakia and the Czech Republic to the
south; and Germany to the west. The
territory has a varied landscape,
diverse ecosystems, and a temperate
climate. Poland is composed of sixteen
voivodeships and is the fifth most
populous member state of the European
Union (EU), with over 38 million
people, and the fifth largest EU
country by land area, covering 312,696
km2 (120,733 sq mi). The capital and
largest city is Warsaw; other major
cities include Kraków, Wrocław, Łódź,
Poznań, and Gdańsk.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~126
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
