**ROMANIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Romania

Romania is a country located at the
crossroads of Central, Eastern and
Southeast Europe. It borders Ukraine to
the north and east, Hungary to the
west, Serbia to the southwest, Bulgaria
to the south, Moldova to the east, and
the Black Sea to the southeast. It has
a mainly continental climate, and an
area of 238,397 km2 (92,046 sq mi) with
a population of 19 million people.
Romania is the twelfth-largest country
in Europe and the sixth-most populous
member state of the European Union.
Europe's second-longest river, the
Danube, empties into the Danube Delta
in the southeast of the country. The
Carpathian Mountains cross Romania from
the north to the southwest and include
Moldoveanu Peak, at an altitude of
2,544 m (8,346 ft). Bucharest is the
country's largest urban area and
financial centre. Other major urban
areas include Cluj-Napoca, Timișoara,
Iași, Constanța and Brașov.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~145
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
