**SAINT PETERSBURG**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Saint Petersburg

Saint Petersburg, formerly known as
Petrograd and later Leningrad, is the
second-largest city in Russia after
Moscow. It is situated on the River
Neva, at the head of the Gulf of
Finland on the Baltic Sea. With an area
of
1,439 sq km, Saint Petersburg is the
smallest administrative division of
Russia by area. The city had a
population of 5,601,911 residents as of
2021, with more than 6.4 million people
living in the metropolitan area. Saint
Petersburg is the fourth-most populous
city in Europe, the most populous city
on the Baltic Sea, and the world's
northernmost city of more than 1
million residents. As the former
capital of the Russian Empire, and a
historically strategic port, it is
governed as a federal city.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~126
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
