**SHANGHAI**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Shanghai

Shanghai is a direct-administered
municipality and the most populous
urban area in China. The city is
located on the Chinese shoreline on the
southern estuary of the Yangtze River,
with the Huangpu River flowing through
it. The population of the city proper
is the second largest in the world with
around 24.87 million inhabitants in
2023, while the urban area is the most
populous in China, with 29.87 million
residents. As of 2022, the Greater
Shanghai metropolitan area was
estimated to produce a gross
metropolitan product (nominal) of
nearly 13 trillion RMB. Shanghai is one
of the world's major centers for
finance, business and economics,
research, science and technology,
manufacturing, transportation, tourism,
and culture. The Port of Shanghai is
the world's busiest container port.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~125
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
