**SOMALIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Somalia

Somalia, officially the Federal
Republic of Somalia, is the easternmost
country in continental Africa.
Stretching across the Horn of Africa,
it borders Ethiopia to the west,
Djibouti to the northwest, Kenya to the
southwest, the Gulf of Aden to the
north, and the Indian Ocean to the
east. Somalia has the longest coastline
on Africa's mainland. Somalia has an
estimated population of 18.1 million,
of which 2.7 million live in the
capital and largest city, Mogadishu. As
one of Africa's most ethnically
homogenous countries, around 85% of its
residents are ethnic Somalis. The
official languages of the country are
Somali and Arabic, though Somali is the
main language. Somalia has historic and
religious ties to the Arab world. The
overwhelming majority of the population
are Sunni Muslims.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~128
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
