**SRI LANKA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Sri Lanka

Sri Lanka, officially the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, also
known historically as Ceylon, is an
island country in South Asia. It lies
in the Indian Ocean, southwest of the
Bay of Bengal, separated from the
Indian peninsula by the Gulf of Mannar
and the Palk Strait. It shares a
maritime border with the Maldives in
the southwest and India in the
northwest, and it lies across the Bay
of Bengal from Bangladesh and Myanmar
in the northeast and the Andaman and
Nicobar Islands in the east. Sri
Jayawardenepura Kotte is the
legislative capital of Sri Lanka, while
the largest city, Colombo, is the
administrative and judicial capital
which is the nation's political,
financial and cultural centre. Kandy is
the second-largest urban area and also
the capital of the last native kingdom
of Sri Lanka. The most spoken language
Sinhala, is spoken by the majority of
the population. Tamil is also spoken by
approximately five million people,
making it the second most-spoken
language in Sri Lanka.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~169
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
