**TAIWAN**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Taiwan

Taiwan, officially the Republic of
China (ROC), is a country in East Asia.
The main island of Taiwan, also known
as Formosa, lies between the East and
South China Seas in the northwestern
Pacific Ocean, with the People's
Republic of China (PRC) to the
northwest, Japan to the northeast, and
the Philippines to the south. It has an
area of 35,808 square kilometres, with
mountain ranges dominating the eastern
two-thirds and plains in the western
third, where its highly urbanized
population is concentrated. The
combined territories under ROC control
consist of 168 islands in total
covering 36,193 square kilometres. The
largest metropolitan area is formed by
Taipei, New Taipei City, and Keelung.
With around 23.9 million inhabitants,
Taiwan is among the most densely
populated countries.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~126
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
