**TUNISIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

**TUNISIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Tunisia

Tunisia, officially the Republic of
Tunisia, is a country in the Maghreb
region of North Africa. It is bordered
by Algeria to the west and southwest,
Libya to the southeast, and the
Mediterranean Sea to the north and
east. Tunisia also shares maritime
borders with Italy through the islands
of Sicily and Sardinia to the north and
Malta to the east. It features the
archaeological sites of Carthage dating
back to the 9th century BC, as well as
the Great Mosque of Kairouan. Known for
its ancient architecture, souks, and
blue coasts, it covers 163,610 km2
(63,170 sq mi), and has a population of
12.1 million. It contains the eastern
end of the Atlas Mountains and the
northern reaches of the Sahara desert;
much of its remaining territory is
arable land. Its 1,300 km (810 mi) of
coastline includes the African
conjunction of the western and eastern
parts of the Mediterranean Basin.
Tunisia is home to Africa's
northernmost point, Cape Angela.
Located on the northeastern coast,
Tunis is the capital and largest city
of the country, which is itself named
after Tunis. The official language of
Tunisia is Modern Standard Arabic. The
vast majority of Tunisia's population
is Arab and Muslim. Vernacular Tunisian
Arabic is the most spoken and French
serves as an administrative and
educational language in some contexts,
but it has no official status.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~227
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 10:57
Words: ~260
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 767d13a4 -->
