**UNITED ARAB EMIRATES**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

United Arab Emirates

The United Arab Emirates (UAE), also
known simply as the Emirates, is a
country in West Asia, situated at the
eastern end of the Arabian Peninsula.
It is a federal semi-constitutional
monarchy made up of seven emirates,
with Abu Dhabi serving as its national
capital while Dubai is the country's
largest city. It shares land borders
with Oman to the east and northeast,
and with Saudi Arabia to the southwest;
as well as maritime borders in the
Persian Gulf with Qatar and Iran, and
with Oman in the Gulf of Oman. As of
2024, the UAE has an estimated
population of over 10 million, which is
multi-ethnic. Islam is the majority
religion and Arabic is the official
language, while English is the most
spoken language and the language of
business.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~133
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
