**VATICAN CITY**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Vatican City

Vatican City, officially the Vatican
City State, often shortened as the
Vatican, is a landlocked sovereign
city-state. Ruled by the pope, it is an
enclave within Rome and serves as the
administrative centre of the Catholic
Church. Vatican City is governed by the
See of Rome, commonly known as the Holy
See, itself a sovereign entity under
international law, which maintains its
temporal power, governance, diplomacy,
and spiritual independence. Vatican is
also used as a metonym for the Holy
See, which is the central governing
body of the Catholic Church and Vatican
City, comprising the pope and the Roman
Curia. The independent state of Vatican
City came into existence in 1929 via
the Lateran Treaty between the Holy See
and the Kingdom of Italy, which spoke
of it as a new creation, not as a
vestige of the much larger Papal States
(756–1870), which had previously
encompassed much of Central Italy.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~153
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
