**VENEZUELA**

Category: Wikipedia › Geography
---------------------------------------

Venezuela

Venezuela, officially the Bolivarian
Republic of Venezuela, is a country on
the northern coast of South America,
consisting of a continental landmass
and many islands and islets in the
Caribbean Sea. It comprises an area of
916,445 km2 (353,841 sq mi), and its
population was estimated at 29 million
in 2022. The capital and largest urban
agglomeration is the city of Caracas.
The continental territory is bordered
on the north by the Caribbean Sea and
the Atlantic Ocean, on the west by
Colombia, Brazil on the south, Trinidad
and Tobago to the north-east and on the
east by Guyana. Venezuela consists of
23 states, the Capital District, and
federal dependencies covering
Venezuela's offshore islands. Venezuela
is among the most urbanized countries
in Latin America; the vast majority of
Venezuelans live in the cities of the
north and in the capital.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Nepal
• Chicago
• New York City
• Indian Ocean
• Los Angeles


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~141
Category: Wikipedia › Geography

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
