**AMMONIA**

Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry
---------------------------------------

Ammonia

Ammonia is an inorganic chemical
compound of nitrogen and hydrogen with
the formula NH3. A stable binary
hydride and the simplest pnictogen
hydride, ammonia is a colourless gas
with a distinctive pungent smell. It is
widely used in fertilizers,
refrigerants, explosives, cleaning
agents, and is a precursor for numerous
chemicals. Biologically, it is a common
nitrogenous waste, and it contributes
significantly to the nutritional needs
of terrestrial organisms by serving as
a precursor to fertilisers. Around 70%
of ammonia produced industrially is
used to make fertilisers in various
forms and composition, such as urea and
diammonium phosphate. Ammonia in pure
form is also applied directly into the
soil.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Salt Chemistry
• Oxygen
• Carbon Dioxide
• Aluminium
• Carbohydrate


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~109
Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
