**CALCIUM**

Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry
---------------------------------------

Calcium

Calcium is a chemical element; it has
symbol Ca and atomic number 20. As an
alkaline earth metal, calcium is a
reactive metal that forms a dark
oxide-nitride layer when exposed to
air. Its physical and chemical
properties are most similar to its
heavier homologues strontium and
barium. It is the fifth most abundant
element in Earth's crust, and the third
most abundant metal, after iron and
aluminium. The most common calcium
compound on Earth is calcium carbonate,
found in limestone and the fossils of
early sea life; gypsum, anhydrite,
fluorite, and apatite are also sources
of calcium. The name comes from Latin
calx "lime", which was obtained from
heating limestone.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Salt Chemistry
• Oxygen
• Carbon Dioxide
• Aluminium
• Carbohydrate


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~112
Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
