**IONIC BONDING**

Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry
---------------------------------------

Ionic bonding

Ionic bonding is a type of chemical
bonding that involves the electrostatic
attraction between oppositely charged
ions, or between two atoms with sharply
different electronegativities, and is
the primary interaction occurring in
ionic compounds. It is one of the main
types of bonding, along with covalent
bonding and metallic bonding. Ions are
atoms with an electrostatic charge.
Atoms that gain electrons make
negatively charged ions. Atoms that
lose electrons make positively charged
ions. This transfer of electrons is
known as electrovalence in contrast to
covalence. In the simplest case, the
cation is a metal atom and the anion is
a nonmetal atom, but these ions can be
more complex, e.g. polyatomic ions like
NH+4 or SO2−4. In simpler words, an
ionic bond results from the transfer of
electrons from a metal to a non-metal
to obtain a full valence shell for both
atoms.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Salt Chemistry
• Oxygen
• Carbon Dioxide
• Aluminium
• Carbohydrate


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~145
Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
