**MAGNESIUM**

Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry
---------------------------------------

Magnesium

Magnesium is a chemical element; it has
symbol Mg and atomic number 12. It is a
shiny gray metal having a low density,
low melting point and high chemical
reactivity. Like the other alkaline
earth metals, it occurs naturally only
in combination with other elements and
almost always has an oxidation state of
+2. It reacts readily with air to form
a thin passivation coating of magnesium
oxide that inhibits further corrosion
of the metal. The free metal burns with
a brilliant-white light. The metal is
obtained mainly by electrolysis of
magnesium salts obtained from brine. It
is less dense than aluminium and is
used primarily as a component in strong
and lightweight alloys that contain
aluminium.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Salt Chemistry
• Oxygen
• Carbon Dioxide
• Aluminium
• Carbohydrate


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~118
Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
