**SILICON**

Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry
---------------------------------------

Silicon

Silicon is a chemical element; it has
symbol Si and atomic number 14. It is a
hard, brittle crystalline solid with a
blue-grey metallic lustre, and is a
tetravalent non-metal and
semiconductor. It is a member of group
14 in the periodic table: carbon is
above it; and germanium, tin, lead, and
flerovium are below it. It is
relatively unreactive. Silicon is a
significant element that is essential
for several physiological and metabolic
processes in plants. Silicon is widely
regarded as the predominant
semiconductor material due to its
versatile applications in various
electrical devices such as transistors,
solar cells, integrated circuits, and
others. These may be due to its
significant band gap, expansive optical
transmission range, extensive
absorption spectrum, surface
roughening, and effective
anti-reflection coating.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Salt Chemistry
• Oxygen
• Carbon Dioxide
• Aluminium
• Carbohydrate


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~126
Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
