**URANIUM**

Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry
---------------------------------------

Uranium

Uranium is a chemical element; it has
symbol U and atomic number 92. It is a
silvery-grey metal in the actinide
series of the periodic table. A uranium
atom has 92 protons and 92 electrons,
of which 6 are valence electrons.
Uranium radioactively decays, usually
by emitting an alpha particle. The
half-life of this decay varies between
159,200 and 4.5 billion years for
different isotopes, making them useful
for dating the age of the Earth. The
most common isotopes in natural uranium
are uranium-238 and uranium-235.
Uranium has the highest atomic weight
of the primordially occurring elements.
Its density is about 70% higher than
that of lead and slightly lower than
that of gold or tungsten. It occurs
naturally in low concentrations of a
few parts per million in soil, rock and
water, and is commercially extracted
from uranium-bearing minerals such as
uraninite.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Salt Chemistry
• Oxygen
• Carbon Dioxide
• Aluminium
• Carbohydrate


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~144
Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
