**ZINC**

Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry
---------------------------------------

Zinc

Zinc is a chemical element; it has
symbol Zn and atomic number 30. It is a
slightly brittle metal at room
temperature and has a shiny-greyish
appearance when oxidation is removed.
It is the first element in group 12
(IIB) of the periodic table. In some
respects, zinc is chemically similar to
magnesium: both elements exhibit only
one normal oxidation state (+2), and
the Zn2+ and Mg2+ ions are of similar
size. Zinc is the 24th most abundant
element in Earth's crust and has five
stable isotopes. The most common zinc
ore is sphalerite (zinc blende), a zinc
sulfide mineral. The largest workable
lodes are in Australia, Asia, and the
United States. Zinc is refined by froth
flotation of the ore, roasting, and
final extraction using electricity
(electrowinning).

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Salt Chemistry
• Oxygen
• Carbon Dioxide
• Aluminium
• Carbohydrate


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~129
Category: Wikipedia › Chemistry

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
