**CLIMATE CHANGE**

Category: Wikipedia › Science
---------------------------------------

Climate change

Present-day climate change includes
both global warming—the ongoing
increase in global average
temperature—and its wider effects on
Earth's climate system. Climate change
in a broader sense also includes
previous long-term changes to Earth's
climate. The current rise in global
temperatures is driven by human
activities, especially fossil fuel
burning since the Industrial
Revolution. Fossil fuel use,
deforestation, and some agricultural
and industrial practices release
greenhouse gases. These gases absorb
some of the heat that the Earth
radiates after it warms from sunlight,
warming the lower atmosphere. Carbon
dioxide, the primary gas driving global
warming, has increased in concentration
by about 50% since the pre-industrial
era to levels not seen for millions of
years.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Relativity
• Thermodynamics
• Black Hole
• Chemistry
• Inorganic Chemistry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~115
Category: Wikipedia › Science

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
