**ELECTROMAGNETISM**

Category: Wikipedia › Science
---------------------------------------

Electromagnetism

In physics, electromagnetism is an
interaction that occurs between
particles with electric charge via
electromagnetic fields. The
electromagnetic force is one of the
four fundamental forces of nature. It
is the dominant force in the
interactions of atoms and molecules.
Electromagnetism can be thought of as a
combination of electrostatics and
magnetism, which are distinct but
closely intertwined phenomena.
Electromagnetic forces occur between
any two charged particles. Electric
forces cause an attraction between
particles with opposite charges and
repulsion between particles with the
same charge, while magnetism is an
interaction that occurs between charged
particles in relative motion. These two
forces are described in terms of
electromagnetic fields. Macroscopic
charged objects are described in terms
of Coulomb's law for electricity and
Ampère's force law for magnetism; the
Lorentz force describes microscopic
charged particles.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Relativity
• Thermodynamics
• Black Hole
• Chemistry
• Inorganic Chemistry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~134
Category: Wikipedia › Science

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
