**PHOTOSYNTHESIS**

Category: Wikipedia › Science
---------------------------------------

Photosynthesis

Photosynthesis is a system of
biological processes by which
photopigment-bearing autotrophic
organisms, such as most plants, algae
and cyanobacteria, convert light energy
— typically from sunlight — into the
chemical energy necessary to fuel their
metabolism. The term photosynthesis
usually refers to oxygenic
photosynthesis, a process that releases
oxygen as a byproduct of water
splitting. Photosynthetic organisms
store the converted chemical energy
within the bonds of intracellular
organic compounds, typically
carbohydrates like sugars, starches,
phytoglycogen and cellulose. When
needing to use this stored energy, an
organism's cells then metabolize the
organic compounds through cellular
respiration. Photosynthesis plays a
critical role in producing and
maintaining the oxygen content of the
Earth's atmosphere, and it supplies
most of the biological energy necessary
for complex life on Earth.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Relativity
• Thermodynamics
• Black Hole
• Chemistry
• Inorganic Chemistry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~126
Category: Wikipedia › Science

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
