**THERMODYNAMICS**

Category: Wikipedia › Science
---------------------------------------

Thermodynamics

Thermodynamics is a branch of physics
that deals with heat, work, and
temperature, and their relation to
energy, entropy, and the physical
properties of matter and radiation. The
behavior of these quantities is
governed by the four laws of
thermodynamics, which convey a
quantitative description using
measurable macroscopic physical
quantities but may be explained in
terms of microscopic constituents by
statistical mechanics. Thermodynamics
applies to various topics in science
and engineering, especially physical
chemistry, biochemistry, chemical
engineering, and mechanical
engineering, as well as other complex
fields such as meteorology.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Relativity
• Black Hole
• Chemistry
• Inorganic Chemistry
• Genetics


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~90
Category: Wikipedia › Science

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
