**AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING**

Category: Wikipedia › Engineering
---------------------------------------

Automotive engineering

Automotive engineering, along with
aerospace engineering and naval
architecture, is a branch of vehicle
engineering, incorporating elements of
mechanical, electrical, electronic,
software, and safety engineering as
applied to the design, manufacture and
operation of motorcycles, automobiles,
and trucks and their respective
engineering subsystems. It also
includes modification of vehicles.
Manufacturing domain deals with the
creation and assembling the whole parts
of automobiles is also included in it.
The automotive engineering field is
research intensive and involves direct
application of mathematical models and
formulas. The study of automotive
engineering is to design, develop,
fabricate, and test vehicles or vehicle
components from the concept stage to
production stage. Production,
development, and manufacturing are the
three major functions in this field.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Bridge
• Wheel
• Road
• Structural Engineering
• Circuit


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~120
Category: Wikipedia › Engineering

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
