**BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING**

Category: Wikipedia › Engineering
---------------------------------------

Biomedical engineering

Biomedical engineering (BME) or medical
engineering is the application of
engineering principles and design
concepts to medicine and biology for
healthcare applications. BME also
integrates the logical sciences to
advance health care treatment,
including diagnosis, monitoring, and
therapy. Also included under the scope
of a biomedical engineer is the
management of current medical equipment
in hospitals while adhering to relevant
industry standards. This involves
procurement, routine testing,
preventive maintenance, and making
equipment recommendations, a role also
known as a Biomedical Equipment
Technician (BMET) or as a clinical
engineer.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Bridge
• Wheel
• Road
• Structural Engineering
• Circuit


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~90
Category: Wikipedia › Engineering

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
