**CHEMICAL ENGINEERING**

Category: Wikipedia › Engineering
---------------------------------------

Chemical engineering

Chemical engineering is an engineering
field which deals with the study of the
operation and design of chemical plants
as well as methods of improving
production. Chemical engineers develop
economical commercial processes to
convert raw materials into useful
products. Chemical engineering uses
principles of chemistry, physics,
mathematics, biology, and economics to
efficiently use, produce, design,
transport and transform energy and
materials. The work of chemical
engineers can range from the
utilization of nanotechnology and
nanomaterials in the laboratory to
large-scale industrial processes that
convert chemicals, raw materials,
living cells, microorganisms, and
energy into useful forms and products.
Chemical engineers are involved in many
aspects of plant design and operation,
including safety and hazard
assessments, process design and
analysis, modeling, control
engineering, chemical reaction
engineering, nuclear engineering,
biological engineering, construction
specification, and operating
instructions.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Bridge
• Wheel
• Road
• Structural Engineering
• Circuit


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~135
Category: Wikipedia › Engineering

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
