**MICROPROCESSOR**

Category: Wikipedia › Engineering
---------------------------------------

Microprocessor

A microprocessor is a computer
processor for which the data processing
logic and control is included on a
single integrated circuit (IC), or a
small number of ICs. The microprocessor
contains the arithmetic, logic, and
control circuitry required to perform
the functions of a computer's central
processing unit (CPU). The IC is
capable of interpreting and executing
program instructions and performing
arithmetic operations. The
microprocessor is a multipurpose,
clock-driven, register-based, digital
integrated circuit that accepts binary
data as input, processes it according
to instructions stored in its memory,
and provides results as output.
Microprocessors contain both
combinational logic and sequential
digital logic, and operate on numbers
and symbols represented in the binary
number system.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Bridge
• Wheel
• Road
• Structural Engineering
• Circuit


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~115
Category: Wikipedia › Engineering

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
