**STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING**

Category: Wikipedia › Engineering
---------------------------------------

Structural engineering

Structural engineering is a
sub-discipline of civil engineering in
which structural engineers are trained
to design the 'bones and joints' that
create the form and shape of human-made
structures. Structural engineers also
must understand and calculate the
stability, strength, rigidity and
earthquake-susceptibility of built
structures for buildings and
nonbuilding structures. The structural
designs are integrated with those of
other designers such as architects and
building services engineer and often
supervise the construction of projects
by contractors on site. They can also
be involved in the design of machinery,
medical equipment, and vehicles where
structural integrity affects
functioning and safety. See glossary of
structural engineering.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Bridge
• Wheel
• Road
• Circuit
• Lever


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~106
Category: Wikipedia › Engineering

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
