**AGE OF ENLIGHTENMENT**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Age of Enlightenment

The Age of Enlightenment was a period
in the history of Europe and Western
civilization during which the
Enlightenment, an intellectual and
cultural movement, flourished, emerging
in the late 17th century in Western
Europe and reaching its peak in the
18th century, as its ideas spread more
widely across Europe and into the
European colonies, in the Americas and
Oceania. Characterized by an emphasis
on reason, empirical evidence, and
scientific method, the Enlightenment
promoted ideals of individual liberty,
religious tolerance, progress, and
natural rights. Its thinkers advocated
for constitutional government, the
separation of church and state, and the
application of rational principles to
social and political reform.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~110
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
