**COLONIALISM**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Colonialism

Colonialism is the practice of
extending and maintaining political,
social, economic, and cultural
domination over a territory and its
people by another people in pursuit of
interests defined in an often distant
metropole, who also claim superiority.
While frequently an imperialist
project, colonialism functions through
differentiating between the targeted
land and people, and that of the
colonizers. Rather than annexation,
this typically culminates in organizing
the colonized into colonies separate to
the colonizers' metropole. Colonialism
sometimes deepens by developing settler
colonialism, whereby settlers from one
or multiple colonizing metropoles
occupy a territory with the intention
of partially or completely supplanting
the existing indigenous peoples,
possibly amounting to genocide.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~109
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
