**DISSOLUTION OF THE SOVIET UNION**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

**DISSOLUTION OF THE SOVIET UNION**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Dissolution of the Soviet Union

The Soviet Union was formally dissolved
as a sovereign state and subject of
international law on 26 December 1991
by Declaration No. 142-N of the Soviet
of the Republics of the Supreme Soviet
of the Soviet Union. It also brought an
end to the Soviet Union's federal
government and General Secretary
Mikhail Gorbachev's effort to reform
the Soviet political and economic
system in an attempt to stop a period
of political stalemate and economic
backslide. The Soviet Union had
experienced internal stagnation and
ethnic separatism. Although highly
centralized until its final years, the
country was made up of 15 top-level
republics that served as the homelands
for different ethnicities. By late
1991, amid a catastrophic political
crisis, with several republics already
departing the Union and Gorbachev
continuing the waning of centralized
power, the leaders of three of its
founding members, the Russian,
Belorussian, and Ukrainian SSRs,
declared that the Soviet Union no
longer existed. Eight more republics
joined their declaration shortly
thereafter. Gorbachev resigned on 25
December 1991 and what was left of the
Soviet parliament voted to dissolve the
union the following day.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~189
Category: History › Expanded

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 10:57
Words: ~227
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 767d13a4 -->
