**HISTORY OF CHINA**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

History of China

The history of China spans several
millennia across a wide geographical
area. Each region now considered part
of the Chinese world has experienced
periods of unity, fracture, prosperity,
and strife. Chinese civilization first
emerged in the Yellow River valley,
which along with the Yangtze basin
constitutes the geographic core of the
Chinese cultural sphere. China
maintains a rich diversity of ethnic
and linguistic people groups. The
traditional lens for viewing Chinese
history is the dynastic cycle: imperial
dynasties rise and fall, and are
ascribed certain achievements. This
lens also tends to assume Chinese
civilization can be traced as an
unbroken thread many thousands of years
into the past, making it one of the
cradles of civilization. At various
times, states representative of a
dominant Chinese culture have directly
controlled areas stretching as far west
as the Tian Shan, the Tarim Basin, and
the Himalayas, as far north as the
Sayan Mountains, and as far south as
the delta of the Red River.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~165
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
