**HISTORY OF IRAN**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

History of Iran

The history of Iran is intertwined with
Greater Iran, which is a socio-cultural
region encompassing all of the areas
that have witnessed significant
settlement or influence by the Iranian
peoples and the Iranian languages –
chiefly the Persians and the Persian
language. Central to this region is the
Iranian plateau, now largely covered by
modern Iran. The most pronounced impact
of Iranian history can be seen
stretching from Anatolia in the west to
the Indus Valley in the east, including
the Levant, Mesopotamia, the Caucasus,
and parts of Central Asia. To varying
degrees, it also overlaps or mingles
with the histories of many other major
civilizations, such as India, China,
Greece, Rome, and Egypt.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~117
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
