**HITTITES**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Hittites

The Hittites were an Anatolian
Indo-European people who formed one of
the first major civilizations of the
Bronze Age in West Asia. Possibly
originating from beyond the Black Sea,
they settled in modern-day Turkey in
the early 2nd millennium BC. The
Hittites formed a series of polities in
north-central Anatolia, including the
kingdom of Kussara, the Kanesh or Nesha
Kingdom, and an empire centered on
their capital, Hattusa. Known in modern
times as the Hittite Empire, it reached
its peak during the mid-14th century BC
under Šuppiluliuma I, when it
encompassed most of Anatolia and parts
of the northern Levant and Upper
Mesopotamia, bordering the rival
empires of the Hurri-Mitanni and
Assyrians.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~113
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
