**ISAAC NEWTON**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Isaac Newton

Sir Isaac Newton was an English
polymath active as a mathematician,
physicist, astronomer, alchemist,
theologian, author, and inventor. He
was a key figure in the Scientific
Revolution and the Enlightenment that
followed. His book Philosophiæ
Naturalis Principia Mathematica, first
published in 1687, achieved the first
great unification in physics and
established classical mechanics. Newton
also made seminal contributions to
optics, and shares credit with German
mathematician Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
for formulating infinitesimal calculus,
though he developed calculus years
before Leibniz. Newton contributed to
and refined the scientific method, and
his work is considered the most
influential in bringing forth modern
science.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~103
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
