**LEONARDO DA VINCI**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Leonardo da Vinci

Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci was an
Italian polymath of the High
Renaissance who was active as a
painter, draughtsman, engineer,
scientist, theorist, sculptor, and
architect. While his fame initially
rested on his achievements as a
painter, he has also become known for
his notebooks, in which he made
drawings and notes on a variety of
subjects, including anatomy, astronomy,
botany, cartography, painting, and
palaeontology. Leonardo is widely
regarded to have been a genius who
epitomised the Renaissance humanist
ideal, and his collective works
comprise a contribution to later
generations of artists matched only by
that of his younger contemporary
Michelangelo.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~105
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
