**MEIJI RESTORATION**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Meiji Restoration

The Meiji Restoration , referred to at
the time as the Honorable Restoration ,
and also known as the Meiji Renovation,
Revolution, Regeneration, Reform, or
Renewal, was a political event that
restored imperial rule to Japan in 1868
under Emperor Meiji. Although there
were ruling emperors before the Meiji
Restoration, the events restored
practical power to, and consolidated
the political system under, the Emperor
of Japan. The Restoration led to
enormous changes in Japan's political
and social structure and spanned both
the late Edo period and the beginning
of the Meiji era, during which time
Japan rapidly industrialised and
adopted Western ideas, production
methods and technology.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~108
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
