**PARTHIAN EMPIRE**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Parthian Empire

The Parthian Empire, also known as the
Arsacid Empire, was a major Iranian
political and cultural power centered
in ancient Iran from 247 BC to 224 AD.
Its latter name comes from its founder,
Arsaces I, who led the Parni tribe in
conquering the region of Parthia in
Iran's northeast, then a satrapy
(province) under Andragoras, who was
rebelling against the Seleucid Empire.
Mithridates I greatly expanded the
empire by seizing Media and Mesopotamia
from the Seleucids. At its height, the
Parthian Empire stretched from the
northern reaches of the Euphrates, in
what is now central-eastern Turkey, to
present-day Afghanistan and western
Pakistan. The empire, located on the
Silk Road trade route between the Roman
Empire in the Mediterranean Basin and
the Han dynasty of China, became a
center of trade and commerce.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~135
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
