**SPACE RACE**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Space Race

The Space Race was a 20th-century
competition between the Cold War
rivals, the United States and the
Soviet Union, to achieve superior
spaceflight capability. It had its
origins in the ballistic missile-based
nuclear arms race between the two
nations following World War II and the
onset of the Cold War. The
technological advantage demonstrated by
spaceflight achievement was seen as
necessary for national security,
particularly in regard to
intercontinental ballistic missile and
satellite reconnaissance capability,
but also became part of the cultural
symbolism and ideology of the time. The
Space Race brought pioneering launches
of artificial satellites, robotic
landers to the Moon, Venus, and Mars,
and human spaceflight in low Earth
orbit and ultimately to the Moon.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~119
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
