**SUMER**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

Sumer

Sumer is the earliest known
civilization, located in the historical
region of southern Mesopotamia,
emerging during the Chalcolithic and
early Bronze Ages between the sixth and
fifth millennium BC. Like nearby Elam,
it is one of the cradles of
civilization, along with Egypt, the
Indus Valley, the Erligang culture of
the Yellow River valley, Caral-Supe,
and Mesoamerica. Living along the
valleys of the Tigris and Euphrates
rivers, Sumerian farmers grew an
abundance of grain and other crops, a
surplus of which enabled them to form
urban settlements. The world's earliest
known texts come from the Sumerian
cities of Uruk and Jemdet Nasr, and
date to between c. 3350 – c. 2500 BC,
following a period of proto-writing c.
4000 – c. 2500 BC.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~124
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
