**WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR**

Category: History › Expanded
---------------------------------------

William the Conqueror

William the Conqueror, sometimes called
William the Bastard, was the first
Norman king of England, reigning from
1066 until his death. A descendant of
Rollo, he was Duke of Normandy from
1035 onward. By 1060, following a long
struggle, his hold on Normandy was
secure. In 1066, following the death of
Edward the Confessor, William invaded
England, leading a Franco-Norman army
to victory over the Anglo-Saxon forces
of Harold Godwinson at the Battle of
Hastings, and suppressed subsequent
English revolts in what has become
known as the Norman Conquest. The rest
of his life was marked by struggles to
consolidate his hold over England and
his continental lands, and by
difficulties with his eldest son,
Robert Curthose.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Song Dynasty
• Reformation
• Akkadian Empire
• Marco Polo
• Holy Roman Empire


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~120
Category: History › Expanded

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
