**ARECACEAE**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

Arecaceae

The Arecaceae are a family of
perennial, flowering plants in the
monocot order Arecales. Their growth
form can be climbers, shrubs, tree-like
and stemless plants, all commonly known
as palms. Those having a tree-like form
are colloquially called palm trees.
Currently, 181 genera with around 2,600
species are known, most of which are
restricted to tropical and subtropical
climates. Most palms are distinguished
by their large, compound, evergreen
leaves, known as fronds, arranged at
the top of an unbranched stem, except
for the Hyphaene genus, which has
branched palms. However, palms exhibit
an enormous diversity in physical
characteristics and inhabit nearly
every type of habitat within their
range, from rainforests to deserts.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Orchid
• Blueberry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~113
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
