**BAMBOO**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

Bamboo

Bamboos are a diverse group of mostly
evergreen perennial flowering plants
making up the subfamily Bambusoideae of
the grass family Poaceae. Giant bamboos
are the largest members of the grass
family, in the case of Dendrocalamus
sinicus having individual stalks
(culms) reaching a length of 46 meters
(151 ft), up to 36 centimeters (14 in)
in thickness and a weight of up to 450
kilograms (1,000 lb). The internodes of
bamboos can also be of great length.
Kinabaluchloa wrayi has internodes up
to 2.5 meters (8 ft) in length. and
Arthrostylidium schomburgkii has
internodes up to 5 meters (16 ft) in
length, exceeded in length only by
papyrus. By contrast, the stalks of the
tiny bamboo Raddiella vanessiae of the
savannas of French Guiana measure only
10–20 millimeters (0.4–0.8 in) in
length by about 2 millimeters (0.08 in)
in width. The origin of the word
"bamboo" is uncertain, but it most
likely comes from the Dutch or
Portuguese language, which originally
borrowed it from Malay.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Orchid
• Blueberry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~166
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
