**CACTUS**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

**CACTUS**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

Cactus

A cactus is a member of the plant
family Cactaceae, a family of the order
Caryophyllales comprising about 127
genera with some 1,750 known species.
The word cactus derives, through Latin,
from the Ancient Greek word κάκτος
(káktos), a name originally used by
Theophrastus for a spiny plant whose
identity is now not certain. Cacti
occur in a wide range of shapes and
sizes. They are native to the Americas,
ranging from Patagonia in the south to
parts of western Canada in the north,
with the exception of Rhipsalis
baccifera, which is also found in
Africa and Sri Lanka. Cacti are adapted
to live in very dry environments,
including the Atacama Desert, one of
the driest places on Earth. Because of
this, cacti show many adaptations to
conserve water. For example, almost all
cacti are succulents, meaning they have
thickened, fleshy parts adapted to
store water. Unlike many other
succulents, the stem is the only part
of most cacti where this vital process
takes place. Most species of cacti have
lost true leaves, retaining only
spines, which are highly modified
leaves. As well as defending against
herbivores, spines help prevent water
loss by reducing air flow close to the
cactus and providing some shade. In the
absence of true leaves, cacti's
enlarged stems carry out
photosynthesis.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Orchid
• Blueberry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~217
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Orchid
• Blueberry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 10:57
Words: ~246
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

<!-- FORMATTED: 767d13a4 -->
