**LETTUCE**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

Lettuce

Lettuce is an annual plant of the
family Asteraceae mostly grown as a
leaf vegetable. The leaves are most
often used raw in green salads,
although lettuce is also seen in other
kinds of food, such as sandwiches,
wraps and soups; it can also be
grilled. Its stem and seeds are
sometimes used; celtuce is one variety
grown for its stems, which are eaten
either raw or cooked. In addition to
its main use as a leafy green, it has
also gathered religious and medicinal
significance over centuries of human
consumption. Europe and North America
originally dominated the market for
lettuce, but by the late 20th century
the consumption of lettuce had spread
throughout the world. In 2023, world
production of lettuce was 28 million
tonnes, led by China with 53% of the
total.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Orchid
• Blueberry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~135
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
