**MAPLE**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

Maple

Acer is a genus of trees and shrubs
commonly known as maples. The genus is
placed in the soapberry family
Sapindaceae. There are approximately
132 species, most of which are native
to Asia, with a number also appearing
in Europe, northern Africa, and North
America. Only one species, Acer
laurinum, extends to the Southern
Hemisphere. The type species of the
genus is the sycamore maple Acer
pseudoplatanus, one of the most common
maple species in Europe. Most maples
usually have easily identifiable
palmate leaves and all share
distinctive winged fruits. The closest
relative of the maples is the small
east Asian genus Dipteronia, followed
by the more widespread genus Aesculus.
Maple syrup is made from the sap of
some maple species. It is one of the
most common genera of trees in Asia.
Many maple species are grown in gardens
where they are valued for their autumn
colour and often decorative foliage,
some also for their attractive flowers,
fruit, or bark.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Orchid
• Blueberry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~162
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
