**MOSS**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

Moss

Mosses are small, non-vascular
flowerless plants in the taxonomic
division Bryophyta sensu stricto.
Bryophyta may also refer to the parent
group bryophytes, which comprise
liverworts, mosses, and hornworts.
Mosses typically form dense green
clumps or mats, often in damp or shady
locations. The individual plants are
usually composed of simple leaves that
are generally only one cell thick,
attached to a stem that may be branched
or unbranched and has only a limited
role in conducting water and nutrients.
Although some species have conducting
tissues, these are generally poorly
developed and structurally different
from similar tissue found in vascular
plants. Mosses do not have seeds and
after fertilisation develop sporophytes
with unbranched stalks topped with
single capsules containing spores. They
are typically 0.2–10 cm (0.1–3.9 in)
tall, though some species are much
larger. Dawsonia Superba, the tallest
moss in the world, can grow to 60 cm
(24 in) in height. There are
approximately 12,000 species.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Orchid
• Blueberry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~156
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
