**OAT**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

Oat

The oat, sometimes called the common
oat, is a species of cereal grain grown
for its seed, which is known by the
same name. Oats appear to have been
domesticated as a secondary crop, as
their seeds resembled those of other
cereals closely enough for them to be
included by early cultivators. Oats
tolerate cold winters less well than
cereals such as wheat, barley, and rye,
but need less summer heat and more
rain, making them important in areas
such as Northwest Europe that have
cool, wet summers. They can tolerate
low-nutrient and acid soils. Oats grow
thickly and vigorously, allowing them
to outcompete many weeds, and compared
to other cereals are relatively free
from diseases.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Orchid
• Blueberry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~117
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
