**ORCHID**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

Orchid

Orchids are plants that belong to the
family Orchidaceae, a diverse and
widespread group of flowering plants
with blooms that are often colourful
and fragrant. Orchids are cosmopolitan
plants, living in diverse habitats on
every continent except Antarctica. The
world's richest diversity of orchid
genera and species is in the tropics.
Many species are epiphytes, living on
trees. The flowers and their
pollination mechanisms are highly
specialized, attracting insect
pollinators by colour, pattern, scent,
pheromones, and sometimes by mimicking
female insects. Orchids have very small
seeds, relying on fungal partners for
germination. Some orchids have no
leaves, either photosynthesizing with
their roots or relying entirely on
fungal partners for food.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Blueberry
• Cactus


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~111
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
