**VENUS FLYTRAP**

Category: Wikipedia › Plants
---------------------------------------

Venus flytrap

The Venus flytrap is a carnivorous
plant native to the temperate and
subtropical wetlands of North Carolina
and South Carolina, on the East Coast
of the United States. Although various
modern hybrids have been created in
cultivation, D. muscipula is the only
species of the monotypic genus Dionaea.
It is closely related to the waterwheel
plant and the cosmopolitan sundews
(Drosera), all of which belong to the
family Droseraceae. Dionaea catches its
prey—chiefly insects and arachnids—with
a "jaw"-like clamping structure, which
is formed by the terminal portion of
each of the plant's leaves; when an
insect makes contact with the open
leaves, vibrations from the prey's
movements ultimately trigger the "jaws"
to shut via tiny hairs on their inner
surfaces. Additionally, when an insect
or spider touches one of these hairs,
the trap prepares to close, only fully
enclosing the prey if a second hair is
contacted within (approximately) twenty
seconds of the first contact. Triggers
may occur as quickly as 1⁄10 of a
second from initial contact.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Coconut
• Carrot
• Birch
• Orchid
• Blueberry


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~170
Category: Wikipedia › Plants

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
