**INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION**

Category: Wikipedia › History
---------------------------------------

Industrial Revolution

The Industrial Revolution, sometimes
divided into the First Industrial
Revolution and Second Industrial
Revolution, was a transitional period
of the global economy toward more
widespread, efficient and stable
manufacturing processes, succeeding the
Second Agricultural Revolution.
Beginning in Great Britain around 1760,
the Industrial Revolution had spread to
continental Europe and the United
States by about 1840. This transition
included going from hand production
methods to machines; new chemical
manufacturing and iron production
processes; the increasing use of water
power and steam power; the development
of machine tools; and rise of the
mechanised factory system. Output
greatly increased, and the result was
an unprecedented rise in population and
population growth. The textile industry
was the first to use modern production
methods, and textiles became the
dominant industry in terms of
employment, value of output, and
capital invested.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• American Civil War
• Renaissance
• Mesopotamia
• Ancient Rome
• French Revolution


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~138
Category: Wikipedia › History

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
