**PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE**

Category: Wikipedia › Philosophy
---------------------------------------

Philosophy of science

Philosophy of science is the branch of
philosophy concerned with the
foundations, methods, and implications
of science. Amongst its central
questions are the difference between
science and non-science, the
reliability of scientific theories, and
the ultimate purpose and meaning of
science as a human endeavour.
Philosophy of science focuses on
metaphysical, epistemic and semantic
aspects of scientific practice, and
overlaps with metaphysics, ontology,
logic, and epistemology, for example,
when it explores the relationship
between science and the concept of
truth. Philosophy of science is both a
theoretical and empirical discipline,
relying on philosophical theorising as
well as meta-studies of scientific
practice. Ethical issues such as
bioethics and scientific misconduct are
often considered ethics or science
studies rather than the philosophy of
science.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• John Locke
• Nihilism
• Philosophy Of Mind
• Phenomenology
• Political Philosophy


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~125
Category: Wikipedia › Philosophy

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
