**THE BUDDHA**

Category: Wikipedia › Philosophy
---------------------------------------

The Buddha

Siddhartha Gautama, most commonly
referred to as the Buddha, was a
wandering ascetic and religious teacher
who lived in South Asia during the 6th
or 5th century BCE and founded
Buddhism. According to Buddhist
legends, he was born in Lumbini, in
what is now Nepal, to royal parents of
the Shakya clan, but renounced his home
life to live as a wandering ascetic.
After leading a life of mendicancy,
asceticism, and meditation, he attained
nirvana at Bodh Gaya in what is now
India. The Buddha then wandered through
the lower Indo-Gangetic Plain, teaching
and building a monastic order (sangha).
Buddhist tradition holds he died in
Kushinagar and reached parinirvana.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• John Locke
• Nihilism
• Philosophy Of Mind
• Phenomenology
• Political Philosophy


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~111
Category: Wikipedia › Philosophy

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
