**UTILITARIANISM**

Category: Wikipedia › Philosophy
---------------------------------------

Utilitarianism

In ethical philosophy, utilitarianism
is a family of normative ethical
theories that prescribe actions that
maximize happiness and well-being for
the affected individuals. In other
words, utilitarian ideas encourage
actions that lead to the greatest good
for the greatest number. Although
different varieties of utilitarianism
admit different characterizations, the
basic idea that underpins them all is,
in some sense, to maximize utility,
which is often defined in terms of
well-being or related concepts. For
instance, Jeremy Bentham, the founder
of utilitarianism, described utility as
the capacity of actions or objects to
produce benefits, such as pleasure,
happiness, and good, or to prevent
harm, such as pain and unhappiness, to
those affected.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• John Locke
• Nihilism
• Philosophy Of Mind
• Phenomenology
• Political Philosophy


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~112
Category: Wikipedia › Philosophy

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
