**ASIAN ELEPHANT**

Category: Wikipedia › Animals
---------------------------------------

Asian elephant

The Asian elephant, also known as the
Asiatic elephant, is the only living
Elephas species. It is the largest
living land animal in Asia and the
second largest living elephantid in the
world. It is characterised by its long
trunk with a single finger-like
processing; large tusks in males;
laterally folded large ears and
wrinkled grey skin that is partly
depigmented on the trunk, ears or neck.
Adult males average 4 t in weight and
females 2.7 t. It has a large and well
developed neocortex of the brain, is
highly intelligent and self-aware being
able to display behaviours associated
with grief, learning and greeting.
Three subspecies are recognised—E. m.
maximus, E. m. indicus and E. m.
sumatranus.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Rat
• Blue Whale
• Zebra
• Camel
• Albatross


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~120
Category: Wikipedia › Animals

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
