**GREAT WHITE SHARK**

Category: Wikipedia › Animals
---------------------------------------

Great white shark

The great white shark, also known as
the white shark, white pointer, or
simply great white, is a species of
large mackerel shark which can be found
in the coastal surface waters of all
the major oceans. It is the only known
surviving species of its genus
Carcharodon. The great white shark is
notable for its size, with the largest
preserved female specimen measuring
5.83 m (19.1 ft) in length and around
2,000 kg (4,400 lb) in weight at
maturity. However, most are smaller;
males measure 3.4 to 4.0 m, and females
measure 4.6 to 4.9 m on average.
According to a 2014 study, the lifespan
of great white sharks is estimated to
be as long as 70 years or more, well
above previous estimates, making it one
of the longest lived cartilaginous
fishes currently known. According to
the same study, male great white sharks
take 26 years to reach sexual maturity,
while the females take 33 years to be
ready to produce offspring. Great white
sharks can swim at speeds of 25 km/h
(16 mph) for short bursts and to depths
of 1,200 m (3,900 ft).

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Rat
• Blue Whale
• Zebra
• Camel
• Albatross


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~190
Category: Wikipedia › Animals

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
