**MILLIPEDE**

Category: Wikipedia › Animals
---------------------------------------

Millipede

Millipedes are a group of arthropods
that are characterised by having two
pairs of jointed legs on most body
segments; they are known scientifically
as the class Diplopoda, the name
derived from this feature. Each
double-legged segment is a result of
two single segments fused together.
Most millipedes have very elongated
cylindrical or flattened bodies with
more than 20 segments, while pill
millipedes are shorter and can roll
into a tight ball. Although the name
"millipede" derives from Latin for
"thousand feet", no species was known
to have 1,000 or more until the
discovery in 2020 of Eumillipes
persephone, which can have over 1,300
legs. There are approximately 12,000
named species classified into 16 orders
and around 140 families, making
Diplopoda the largest class of
myriapods, an arthropod subphylum which
also includes centipedes and other
multi-legged creatures.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Rat
• Blue Whale
• Zebra
• Camel
• Albatross


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~138
Category: Wikipedia › Animals

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
