**MOSQUITO**

Category: Wikipedia › Animals
---------------------------------------

Mosquito

Mosquitoes, the Culicidae, are a family
of small flies consisting of 3,600
species. The word mosquito is Spanish
and Portuguese for little fly.
Mosquitoes have a slender segmented
body, one pair of wings, three pairs of
long hair-like legs, and specialized,
highly elongated, piercing-sucking
mouthparts. All mosquitoes drink nectar
from flowers; females of many species
have adapted to also drink blood. The
group diversified during the Cretaceous
period. Evolutionary biologists view
mosquitoes as micropredators, small
animals that parasitise larger ones by
drinking their blood without
immediately killing them. Medical
parasitologists instead view mosquitoes
as vectors of disease, carrying
protozoan parasites or bacterial or
viral pathogens from one host to
another.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Rat
• Blue Whale
• Zebra
• Camel
• Albatross


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~111
Category: Wikipedia › Animals

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
