**PLATYPUS**

Category: Wikipedia › Animals
---------------------------------------

Platypus

The platypus, sometimes referred to as
the duck-billed platypus, is a
semiaquatic, egg-laying mammal endemic
to eastern Australia, including
Tasmania. The platypus is the sole
living representative of its family
Ornithorhynchidae and genus
Ornithorhynchus, though a number of
related species appear in the fossil
record. Together with the four species
of echidna, it is one of the five
extant species of monotremes, mammals
that lay eggs instead of giving birth
to live young. Like other monotremes,
the platypus has a sense of
electrolocation, which it uses to
detect prey in water while its eyes,
ears and nostrils are closed. It is one
of the few species of venomous mammals,
as the male platypus has a spur on each
hind foot that delivers an extremely
painful venom.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Rat
• Blue Whale
• Zebra
• Camel
• Albatross


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~127
Category: Wikipedia › Animals

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
