**RACCOON**

Category: Wikipedia › Animals
---------------------------------------

Raccoon

The raccoon, sometimes called the North
American, northern or common raccoon to
distinguish it from other species of
raccoon, is a mammal native to North
America. It is the largest of the
procyonid family, having a body length
of 40 to 70 cm, and a body weight of 5
to 26 kg. Its grayish coat mostly
consists of dense underfur, which
insulates it against cold weather. The
animal's most distinctive features
include its extremely dexterous front
paws, its facial mask, and its ringed
tail, which are common themes in the
mythologies of the Indigenous peoples
of the Americas surrounding the
species. The raccoon is noted for its
intelligence, and studies show that it
can remember the solution to tasks for
at least three years. It is usually
nocturnal and omnivorous, eating about
40% invertebrates, 33% plants, and 27%
vertebrates.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Rat
• Blue Whale
• Zebra
• Camel
• Albatross


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~140
Category: Wikipedia › Animals

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
