**SNAKE**

Category: Wikipedia › Animals
---------------------------------------

Snake

Snakes are elongated limbless reptiles
of the suborder Serpentes.
Cladistically squamates, snakes are
ectothermic, amniote vertebrates
covered in overlapping scales much like
other members of the group. Many
species of snakes have skulls with
several more joints than their lizard
ancestors and relatives, enabling them
to swallow prey much larger than their
heads. To accommodate their narrow
bodies, snakes' paired organs appear
one in front of the other instead of
side by side, and most only have one
functional lung. Some species retain a
pelvic girdle with a pair of vestigial
claws on either side of the cloaca.
Lizards have independently evolved
elongate bodies without limbs or with
greatly reduced limbs at least
twenty-five times via convergent
evolution, leading to many lineages of
legless lizards. These resemble snakes,
but several common groups of legless
lizards have eyelids and external ears,
which snakes lack, although this rule
is not universal.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Rat
• Blue Whale
• Zebra
• Camel
• Albatross


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~150
Category: Wikipedia › Animals

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
