**WHALE**

Category: Wikipedia › Animals
---------------------------------------

Whale

Whales are a widely distributed and
diverse group of fully aquatic
placental marine mammals. As an
informal and colloquial grouping, they
correspond to large members of the
infraorder Cetacea, i.e. all cetaceans
apart from dolphins and porpoises.
Dolphins and porpoises may be
considered whales from a formal,
cladistic perspective. Whales, dolphins
and porpoises belong to the order
Cetartiodactyla, which consists of
even-toed ungulates. Their closest
non-cetacean living relatives are the
hippopotamuses, from which they and
other cetaceans diverged about 54
million years ago. The two parvorders
of whales, baleen whales (Mysticeti)
and toothed whales (Odontoceti), are
thought to have had their last common
ancestor around 34 million years ago.
Mysticetes include four extant (living)
families: Balaenopteridae, Balaenidae,
Cetotheriidae, and Eschrichtiidae.
Odontocetes include the Monodontidae,
Physeteridae, Kogiidae, and Ziphiidae,
as well as the six families of dolphins
and porpoises which are not considered
whales in the informal sense.

=======================================
**RELATED ARTICLES:**

• Rat
• Blue Whale
• Zebra
• Camel
• Albatross


=======================================
Processed: 2025-10-20 06:09
Words: ~148
Category: Wikipedia › Animals

<!-- FORMATTED: 85b3ca62 -->
